So the central piece, as we've discussed already, is this intelligence problem. We've got intelligence, right? These large language models are seemingly intelligent, or they're extremely well able to fake intelligence, but the problem is they are completely independent. They are in a jar. You can talk to them; they can respond, but they cannot do stuff, and that's what we're trying to fix by introducing tools. Tools are actuators. It doesn't. If I ask my large language model to send an email, it can't. It can compose an email for me, but it literally can't hit the send button on my email client. The send button, in turn, on my email client, ends up calling maybe a Python function, and that Python function will take the contents of my email, talk to a mail transfer server and hand over the mail. The problem is that the large language model not only can't hit the send button, it can't even call that function directly. So we are hoping to give these tools, meaning these kinds of functions, to the large language model and say, hey, these are the functions. Feel free to call them with the right set of parameters when you want those functions to be called. So we're essentially endowing large language models with these hands. We're saying, here are these hands, the tools, and here's how they work. You are a reasoning engine. You are a brain. You know how to send messages to them. You know how to create a function call, which my other Python program, that's my system, can execute for you and hand over the result back to you. That's essentially how the tools work. Now, these tools are usually just function calls. Think of Python functions that are called, and it allows this brain to call these tools or functions and do stuff in the world: trade buy stock, buy more stock, sell more stock, send an email, right? Plan a trip, book a trip, whatever. But plan a trip would still be a large language model. I can plan a trip, but a planning and booking would be the task of an agent. Now, what I want to do is first I want to look a little more closely in how these tools are actually called right? Remember, these large language models are nothing more than language completion. They happen to have some amount of reasoning capability, and we want to take advantage of that and have the tools work with this reasoning capability. Tools are Python scripts, it could be any language scripts, but these are scripts or computer programs, and LLM is just a text generated, no hands, cannot press run on a Python script. The magic really is in the LLM understanding the list of tools and creating function calls in the right format. So, if I tell the large language model I've got these four different functions, and describe the four different functions, the hope is this brain can understand what functions I have handy, and when a task comes in, it can create a function call not only with the name of the function but the right set of parameters in the right order, and hand it over to the system, the LLM cannot run that script. They hand it over to the system, and the system will call the function with the right set of parameters, execute the function call, take the result, and hand it over to the LLM. That's what the way it works. Now let's go through one example. So let's say we create our first agent. An agent is nothing more than an agent prompt. So this this whole box is the agent. An agent has a few things. It's got an agent prompt. It's got an LLM brain. LLM brain, and it's got a user sending a query, and it needs to respond. And it needs to respond. The issue is, if not for the agent, I could say tell the, I could ask the agent an example: What is the weather?

In Austin right now,

right. So the right now is important. I'm asking the question: What's the weather in Austin right now? And remember, without any. Of this agentic framework, the large language model has no clue. The large language model was trained as a language completion model with data from long, long ago. So currently, the weather in Austin is not something the large language model understands. Ideally, it would like to talk to a database, a weather database, and send in the name of the city and get back the weather details. Basically, maybe in a JSON format because it's a script, and then use a script to answer. But the problem is the LLM does not have an ability to talk to the database that contains the weather. So this is why we built an agentic framework. The agentic framework starts by saying it tells the agent prompt your helpful assistant, meaning kind of give you gives it a persona to essentially say you need to answer the questions in a nice polite manner. You have access to a tool, one tool in this case called Get Weather. Okay, Get Weather is essentially a script. Okay, so let's say there is a get weather script def get underscore weather and that's a script. It's got a whole bunch of lines and it's got a return string string. It's a string that's return after a whole and this get weather script probably it's a Python function. This get weather script probably logs into a database server, which contains the weather information, gets it, blah blah blah. This get weather script takes a city name, right? City is required, so all that you need to do is get weather and call it with one argument, which is the name of city in this case Austin, but this script cannot be fed in this entire English language, and this script wouldn't understand. This is a deterministic script. It takes the city, logs into a database, sends a SQL query with the name of city, gets a return, and sends that return as a string. Right? That's it. Now the issue is that LLMs don't know this script exists, so the prompt says you have access to a tool called GetWeather, which takes one argument city as a string. If you need to use it, output a JSON in this format. Okay. Now what we have is going to be going to have an agent executor. Agent, an agent executor. This is a program, and or remember, all of these form the agent system. So this is our core LLM brain. Think of it as an API call to a large language model, that's fine. So, and this system prompt, this agent prompt, is also fed into the LLM before. So this is the first prompt that goes in; it stays in. LLM learns from it, and now you ask the weather in Austin right now. This LLM starts to reason. It combines these two and says okay. It turns out I need to make a JSON. I need to make a call to get weather, right? And one argument is a city, and I've already said if you need this, make a JSON. So this is going to create a JSON request, and that JSON request is sent by the agent orchestrator or the computer program or the Python script that's running this entire agent or implementing this agent, and the JSON script goes action is get weather and action input the action input.

Input is the city Austin

and bracket close right. So again, apologies for the small font, but you get the idea. The idea is that it uses a format exactly and says the action is get weather. And the reason we need this is particularly because there might be a future where we have more than one tool, right? So we need the name of the tool, and we need the set of inputs the function needs or the tool needs. In this case, just city and Austin. And this agent executer is a computer program that has the ability to use this JSON, create a function call, and actually call the program. Right. So this this runs a call. Okay. This is a JSON, and this is this would be a JSON in this example, and this will be a JSON RPC probably remote procedure call. This is just another protocol for it to call a function. Maybe not if it is on a different computer, it's a JSON RPC. If not, it's just a computer call within the same machine. But it's it. The way it's this agent executor makes a call, this function executes itself, executes and returns maybe 7272 degrees sunny or something like that. That's a string return, and this string is also returned back to the LLM. 72 degrees sunny, and this LLM now needs the information. It has the information it needs and makes a language, English language-based interpretation of this text and this question and this thing and response the weather, The

in Austin right now

is 72 degrees Fahrenheit and it's sunny. Right, so that's English responded with good English. Now the problem with these computer programs is that they can't understand English. And even if you did make them understand a specific kind of English, I change the question to something a little different. I say, "Hey, I feel like going out right now. What do you think the weather is in Austin right now? Or something like that. I just change English a little bit up, and this will this will trip. But the large language model, since it understands English, will not trip as long as the context and the question revolves around requiring the weather in Austin. And once this large language model understands what tools it has, the big magic here is this language model can translate this question to this JSON, depending upon what tools are available. That translation is what ability to translate into a clear JSON call or clear function call is what allows the agent to use these tools efficiently. Now you can easily imagine instead of having one tool, I could have a whole bunch of tools. I could have tool number two, tool number three, tool number four, tool number five, tool number six, tool number seven, and just list out all the tools. Call you you have access to a set of tools and list the tools out instead of get weather. I just list all the tools out, and suddenly this large language model not only can use the weather, get the weather. It can actually book plane tickets. It can trade stock. It can do complex mathematical calculations. It can send emails. It can do a whole bunch of things just because of that tool. Without any of this, without the agent prompt or without any of this interface that allows the LLM to actually run Python code, without any of that, the LLM is just a brain in a jar. With all of these, all of a sudden the LLM can complete tasks by actually doing stuff in the real world.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
