Now let's talk a little about where these tools live. In this example, in this example, I said these tools probably live in the computer. In which case, this is just a agent just calling the function. You know, loading up the library and calling the function, but as I said, these tools might be available on a completely different server, and this is especially true in a complex world. We are doing complex tasks currently. Computers call each other using APIs. For example, if I want the map or a route from point A to B, I'm not going to build the entire Google Maps infrastructure by myself. I don't have the data. I don't need to do it. So I could simply make an API call to Google Maps. I could ask Google Maps server, "Hey, can you give me the driving directions from point A with this address to point B with this address? I could send that as an API call, and Google servers will respond to me with the address. I give sorry with the driving directions in a JSON format. Now I could use the JSON format, and in my own app, I could parse it and I could present it in a convenient way for my user, and these API calls are how computers have been talking to each other, and these API calls are quite brittle, right? Think about it. I version one of Google Maps are available, so I look at the Google API documentation, and I built my app using that documentation to make a call in a specific structured way. I make the call. The argument one needs to be this. Argument two needs to be this. Argument three needs to be this. Argument four needs to be my API key, and so on. Now, my app is built. Google's version one of that API is done, so we are talking to each other. Good. Suddenly, one fine day, Google decides they need to make a better API set because the features have increased. They come up with version two of their APIs, and all of these have changed. Argument three is no longer optional. Argument four was not what it used to be now it's argument two and newer arguments have come in new API whatever it's all a different system it's a now that forces me to rebuild my app I need to go I need to create a different version of my app I need to find out how the APIs have changed I need to change my code and implement it that's how the system has been working till today. Now the hope is that with English instead of APIs, with English being the mode of communication between computers and functions on computers, maybe there is a better way to do things. Maybe there is a way to architect the whole system such that when Google changes its API, my computer, my app doesn't need to be rewritten because my app now has an English understanding brain. This large language model can read the new API parameters list from Google and reframe its JSON call according to that parameter list dynamically without me having to rewrite code. That is the grand hope. Let's see how that is accomplished with what people called the MCP server. So this is the integration night pair. So tools are often living in different servers. Google APIs is the example I gave you, but there could be other APIs too. And one app like mine could be using a bunch of other servers, other APIs, and other tools. Right? An agent might need to call these tools to get a job done. And the whole point is, since this agent has an LLM that's intelligent or understands English, it might be best to allow the agent to learn the list of tools dynamically. So, if a tool gets added by the server, if a tool gets changed by the server, if a tool gets you know updated by the server, doesn't matter as long as the agent can learn the list of tools dynamically, we are in business, and we don't have to rebuild our app over and over again. So this is what a new protocol called the Model Context Protocol allows us to do. We'll go through it. It's an open standard for tools and agent integration. Agents to talk to tools.

It it's it's it's based on the client-server architecture. It decouples reasoning from execution, and it's best illustrated using an example. Let's go over an example. So here we have another agent. We call it the MCP host because this is essentially, you know. Model context protocol client with an agent. So the moment I say agent, you got a LLM that forms the central brain of this agent. Now we're going to have this question. We're going to start with an example. So let's say I ask the question: How many? How many iPhones do we have in stock? Okay, let's say I'm a retailer, I am Best Buy, and I all of a sudden ask this agent, right? How many iPhones do we have in stock? Because there's somebody up here asking me whether they can buy a dozen iPhones, and I need to check inventory, right? I ask in plain English, how many iPhones do we have in stock to this agent? To this agent, this agent is supposed to be my assistant or helper, and this agent needs to talk to my manufacturers or distributors or my warehouses database system. Now I don't have. Let's think this is somebody else. This is my distributor, like Google providing a map API. My distributor was providing an API before, but now my distributor is providing an MCP server that allows me to dynamically learn stuff. So this is my distributor, just like the Google example earlier. This is my distributor providing an MCP server. This is my agent. My these guys have access to this information, but I don't. But my LLM needs to talk to them. So the idea is, when this is the system, this is the entire system. This is the brain, right? The brain does not know all of this. But when the system gets initialized, when the entire agent system get MCP host with the agent gets initialized, the first thing that happens is during initialization before any of this prompting starts, the the server talks to the MCP server and does a bunch of things. First, it does authentication. It kind of establishes a handshake and say, "Hey, I'm authorized to talk to you, and you're authorized. Here's my username and password. You're authorized to whenever I ask you a question, you're authorized to send me information, blah blah blah, handshakes happen. Then after the handshake happens, the handshake happens, and the system says authorized. Okay. After the handshake, the next thing that does for an MCP host, the MCP host always starts with this function question list Tools. So this is a question saying, "Hey, I've authenticated. Now I have the right to talk to you. Can you send me the list of tools you have? The MCP servers respond, and that's what MCP protocol stands for. These are the ways we will communicate. If I ask you this, you need to respond with this and so on and so forth, so the MCP server responds saying, "Okay, I have the following set of tools. I have get table schema or get database schema. I have query DB. I have these two functions, okay, and it describes the functions. It describes the parameters of the functions, and it sends all that information back to initialization. Initialization is done. Then we move on to agent prompt. Agent prompt is created. You are helpful assistant. You have access to the following set of tools, and these tools are populated here. All the tools are listed with their descriptions. Once this agent prompt prompt is created, the agent prompt is fed to the large language model, and the large language model reads the agent prompt and says, "Okay, I'm ready to start execution. Now, once that execution begins, you ask the question, "How many iPhones do we have in stock? The large language model interprets this question, just like the earlier example. Looks at this list of tools and it decides that it needs to first ask, understand what the database structure looks like using get table schema or get database schema. Once it understands the database structure, it can create another SQL query, say select whatever in the whatever table and find me how many counts there are or whatever, right? Depending upon the table schema, it can actually come up with an SQL query. Now the way we do that is there is MCP clients that sits here.

Let's call it MCP client. MCP client is your agent executor, but in this case, it's going to call functions in a different server. So here, the LLM is going to create a JSON call. It's going to be the same way, action and. Action get table schema action inputs whatever inputs need to be there a JSON call and this JSON call is converted to a JSON RPC again just to remote procedure call that's a remote procedure call it lands on the server and the server responds saying. "Hey, here are the databases I have. Here are the tables I have. Here are the structure of each of the tables. Blah blah blah. And then that goes back to the large language model. The large language model then realizes, "Okay, it's got the names of the tables. It's got the names of the columns. It's got everything. Using all of that information, it can format another SQL query and call query DB. So it sends another another call, JSON call that says action Query DB action input the query and gives the SQL query. The MCP client converts that to JSON RPC, sends it back to the server, gets a response, hands it over, and the large language model responds. We currently have five iPhones in stock, or something like that. Okay, so that's it. Now here's the key. First, these tools completely lived on a different server, and still our agent was able to do this. But the very critical thing that I alluded to earlier, if my distributor were to change any of their implementations. Maybe suddenly they decide to call get underscore table underscore schema without the underscores. They decided for some reason that they want to call it get. They want to call use camel case instead of underscores in between. It's okay. I don't have to rewrite any part of the code during the Discovery process, my server will learn that there is a new tool, and it will allow, and that will paste the tool and its description here, and my LLM will automatically understand. Maybe there is another new function that my distributor is going to create. Maybe in the same function the distributor wants the API key every single time. Maybe, maybe, maybe my distributor can do anything and everything they want. They can change it from version one to 1.1 to 1.2 to 1.3 every minute of the day. But my agent, during every initialization, all I have to do is just reinitialize. During every initialization, we'll learn the list of tools, adjust its function call to match what it learned, and make the function call and respond. The beautiful part of the story is I don't need to rewrite my code crazy number of times because I'm letting this brain of mine, kind of dynamically readjust to the world that might be changing on me, and this becomes very, very. This becomes much more appreciated the moment you realize that your computer programs are talking to 20 different vendors, 20 different APIs, 20 different distributors, 20 different, and all of them, any given day, is going to make one change. And if that's the case, all you will be doing is creating different versions of your computer program over and over and over and over again. But with this kind of framework, you implement it once. You sit back and watch and monitor as long and see it adapting. Now, this dynamism is the key idea here. The learning and the execution are both dynamic.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
