Now I want to move on to the other topic for this lecture, which would be to talk about memory. Now, large language models are completely memoryless. So the funny part is when you open up ChatGPT or Gemini or whatever your favorite large language model is, and you start typing a query. You ask it a query, and you say, "Hey, I live in Austin. The large language model responds, "Break something, blah blah blah. And then you say, "What's the weather in my city right now? It seems to understand, you know, you're asking for weather in Austin because you just told it that you live in Austin, so that kind of gives us the feeling that it knows, it has a little bit of memory, and that memory is really, really not memory of the large language model. It's what we call the context window. So let me give you an example. Right, let me start with the example. So let's say you go to a large language model and say, "Who is the secret identity of Batman? and it responds, "Bruce Wayne. Then you say, "Who plays him in the Dark Knight? and it says Christian Bale. Now, when you ask the second question, it seems like the large language model had memory, and it remembered that you were talking about Batman and Bruce Wayne, right? So we are asking. In this question is interpreted as who plays Bruce Wayne in The Dark Knight. But really, really, what's going on is when this query was asked, the large language model. So this query was sent to the large language model, and it responded with Bruce Wayne. When this query is being sent, what your interface, your browser interface, did is not sending this query. It's sending this whole thing again into the large language model. And for this whole thing as your new query, this whole thing is in new query, not just this. This whole thing is a new query. It responds Christian Bale, because if you didn't send these two and only sent this as your query into the large language model, you would have actually gotten the question which character. That would be the same as just creating a new chat. This is what the context window is? That's the context window. This is the context window. So this is how large language models are taking memory. They don't. You ask a question, it responds, and it doesn't remember that you asked the question. It's just back in its old state. But the next time you ask a question, we kind of trick it by giving the entire. So if you have a conversation with a chatbot, you've you've asked been asking 10 questions and it's done 10 responses. When you ask the 11th question, the chatbot receives your entire transcript of 10 questions and 10 answers, plus the 11th question as input to actually answer the 11th question, 11th answer, right? So that is how this is what we call the context window, and the context window essentially tricks you, the user, into believing that the large language model has some kind of short-term memory, still short-term memory, not long-term memory, because if you abandon this chat, if you abandon this chat, you create a new chat and you come back to that new chat one week later and tell the LLM, "Do you remember what superhero I was talking about last week? The badge language model is going to say, "I don't, I don't know what you're talking about, right? So this is the issue. Now, yeah, it doesn't have memory, but why do we need these large language models to have memory in the first place? These large language models are stateless. That is, they do stateless, meaning they do not have long-term memory. They don't even have short-term memory, but we kind of fake the short-term memory with the context window exercise that we just talked about, right? So agents not having memory can be frustrating. Think about it, right? Think about an agent that is taking that is planning a trip for you, right? So maybe the last time the agent planned a trip for you, you told the agent that you don't like getting up too early in the morning during a vacation. You told the agent that you're a vegetarian. You told the agent that you like spicy food. Whatever, right?

So fast forward six months later, you're planning another another trip, and you tell the agent plan a three day trip to Tokyo, and your agent is asking all the questions all over again, or even worse, misses you. Remember telling the agent that you don't like getting up early in the morning during your vacation, but your agent doesn't remember that. Assumes that you can start your tour of the city at 6 a.m. and comes up with a big plan. You don't check on it particularly because you think that you've already told your agent, which would be the case if this was a physical. Agent, physical travel agent who works with you all the time, you would expect them to remember. But this particular travel agent is has amnesia. He or she does not remember anything more than five seconds, like a goldfish. So the problem is that this agent will come book a trip for you that essentially makes you has you dining in all kinds of restaurants that don't have vegetarian options, it starts your day at 6 a.m. in the morning. It things that you would have expected a travel agent to remember. So not having memory can be frustrating and most importantly very inefficient and sometimes very damaging, right? The easy thing is we can provide this memory, and we will do that by simple text injection. And let me show you an example of how we can actually endow an agent with memory by text injection. Right. So let's go through an example again. So here we have an agent. We have an agent with memory. Here is a text file called memory.txt, and memory.txt is currently a blank and empty text file. Right? That's it. Now think about an LLM again, large language model, and let's take the example where I tell the large language model first. The first prompt I give the large language model is I I'm lactose intolerant and I only drink oat milk. So I tell it I'm lactose intolerant. I only drink oat milk, and the large language model responds by saying, "Okay, I get that. Second, one week later, I come back to this large language model and I say, "Order a latte. Right. So again, this is a large language model. It doesn't have tools, so it can't really order a latte. But let's say we put it in an agent without memory, and we give the large language model the ability to order tools. Okay, so we we let's do that. Let's let's put a tool that says make coffee. Make coffee, and this tool can actually produce coffee. Right, that's my coffee. This is a robotic tool. It's a Python script that large language model can call. Again, we'll have an agent executor, and it can talk to the agent executor, and this agent executer can actually have this robotic coffee maker make coffee, right? So this is a large language model. Again, the same thing. Like this is the executor. So I say order latte, the large language model. This agent prompt tells me what tools are available, and using all of those tools, the large language model sends a JSON call, and this executer converts this JSON call into a function call and calls this robotic arm, and that robotic arm pushes coffee out. The problem is that without memory, order latte will basically make the LLM send a latte making instruction, make the robotic arm make latte in normal milk. It doesn't remember the fact that I told it that last week that I'm allergic. I'm allergic or I'm lactose intolerant and I can only drink oatmeal. So we'll have a problem. We need to endow this agent with some memory, and this is how we do this. We create a text file called memory.txt. In this example, that could be a database too, right? And this is an empty file right now. We say you are a helpful assistant. You have access to a called called save memory. It's called save memory, and so there is another function called save memory.

Def save memory.

Right? It's got a bunch, and that function will obviously write to memory.txt. Right? So, and that's another tool. So in this case, you have a tool called Save Memory plus Make Coffee. That's your Save Memory. That's your Make Coffee. Two tools. So you're a helpful assistant. You have access to two tools called Save Memory and Make coffee instruction. If the user mentions a personal preference, you must call safe memory to store it for future. And you need another instruction saying if the user asks you to make coffee, call the make coffee tool with this parameters and so on. Do not save casual conversations; only permanent facts. Okay. Now, and this memory.txt is in. Entirely paste it here. Okay, right now it's empty, so it's pasted here. It's empty. It goes to the element, and the first thing you say is, "I only drink oat milk. It knows the instructions. It says, "Oh my God! Now the user is telling me about a personal preference. So it call. It creates a JSON call to save memory, and says inside the JSON call parameter, it says this user only is lactose intolerant and only drinks oatmeal. So that

is sent to safe memory, and it's written down here. It says this user, this user, this user only drinks oat milk.

Okay, and this response noted. Thanks. Right, so it saves it, comes back, reports the LLM that it saved, and it's responding. Noted. Thanks. Next week, you come, you say order latte. It goes to the LLM. But remember the agent prompt. The agent prompt not only said this. The agent prompt pasted this text in here. So the agent prompt clearly told the LLM that this user only drinks oat milk, and with that instruction in play, the moment you say order latte, the JSON call that gets created here is a call to make coffee, and the JSON prompt clearly says make coffee with oat milk, and then you have your oat milk coffee. And for for this, you have get this percent of your oat milk latte is ready, right? So this is how memory works. Remember, the memory here was really again fake. The LLM never had memory. The LLM was never given memory. The LLM forgets that you had oat milk. You only have oat milk. The LLM forgets, but the system remembers. So the LLM still does not have memory, but the system Now has memory, right? We create the memory in the system. So this is an agent with memory. The LLM still does not. Now memory can. This is long-term memory. You could have a text file. You could have a little more of a structure. You could have a structured list. You could have it stored in a database. You could have multiple users, in which case you need to pull up the right user for the right time. You could do a whole bunch of things, right? But every single time, the moment you talk about memory, you are talking about some kind of a text injection into the prompt, right? Even if this was stored in a database, you query the database, take it back in plain English, and stick it back into the agent so that the agent LLM is instructed to remember. So they use something that was already remembered by the system. That's pretty much it. Now the reason why the reason why memory can be very useful. It's kind of obvious, but just to work with, we talked about personalization. This is essentially the computer or the agent understanding that I do not like to get up early in the morning during my vacations, or understanding that I like to have my drinks with oat milk, blah blah blah, that kind of stuff. Context continuity. So I could be working on a project. I could be submitting it to my manager. Two weeks later, my manager responds with the feedback. I want to start off right where I finished with, and therefore, some kind of a context memory that kind of gets the large language model up to speed would be really useful. Its efficiency, because I don't want to tell the large language model the same thing are repeated last week. Not only is it inefficient, but I might miss saying something, and I might get something that I don't like. And long-term reasoning. And so, if there are reasoning thoughts that we've made long-term, so we were trying to plan a project, and there was a lot of reasoning we did, and we don't want to repeat all that reasoning mechanism all over again today, right? We did we did a brainstorming session with the LLM. Me and the LLM did a whole bunch of brainstorming, and we concluded that this is a good way to design this building. But then, when I want to, when I get the feedback from my city, the permit process done, I don't want to go through the entire reasoning again. I want the LLM to be up to speed on its reasoning abilities from last week, so that I can continue the reasoning and make a better design this week too. We already talked about short term versus long term. Long term is anything that you store and you're able to pull back. Short term is usually the one that is. Available in the context window currently.

With all that said, these are what we call the agent's body. The agent's body, the agent's brain is a large language model, but the agent's body is all the tools. So we talked about how agents communicate with the tools, and we talked about how agents can borrow tools from an MCP server, and finally, we talked about how agents with memory can use the same set of tools like the coffee making mechanism much better and more efficiently without making a complete mess.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
