Hey guys, good morning. How's it going? Okay, I hope I'm audible. I'm visible as well. Perfect. Okay, so let's get started. Thanks, Luke. Okay, let me share my screen. Let's get into it. Just give me a sec. Just want to make sure I have the right content. Some reason good going. Okay, yeah. I hope you guys can see my screen now. Let me know if not. Okay, I'll go slow as well. Quickly going slow. Okay, great. So thanks, Vitna. Perfect. So welcome you all. Hope having a good time. So here we are, right? We just started last week, and then we have the support session today. But important, of course, because rags are very special, and you know, like I'll say, 90% of the agentic AI is mostly rag, right? So it's important to understand and, of course, implement the solution. Right, so today, how I'm going to stretch the class is we will have a support session. Okay, let me open the the the presentation. Also, just give me a sec. Yeah, here you go. I think this is the one. So we'll be talking about the background. What exactly the project is all about, right? We'll definitely. This is a Q and A session, right? So first project. So if you have any questions, concerns, feel free to type it on chat, right? You can raise your hand. More than happy to discuss those upfront as well, right? So we'll be spending around 1520 minutes on this, roughly on the conceptual side of things, what we have learned from the last week, and what we have to apply, right? Then we will see how, like, what exactly the rubrics or what will be the evaluation criteria, right? As in, what will be the key areas where they will evaluate on, right? So we'll go through the evaluation rubric, right? Which will talk about all the steps you have to take to cover the all the pivotal elements. Just to give you a gist, like let's say if you are creating a rag database, which definitely you would write. So, what PDF parser you are using? How how much you how much chunks you are creating versus chunk size, right? All those final details have to be enclosed there. Okay, and of course, at the same time, if you are writing a prompt, good to highlight it, right? Like what prompt you're writing, you know, and just defining a bit about that as well, right? So we'll talk about like some of the submission guidelines as well. I think most of you are from a coding background or non-coding background, so if you're from a low-code version, I think you have to submit a presentation. If you are full code version, then you have to submit the notebook in STML format, right? So we'll talk about, of course, like I said, right? What needs to be submitted, what needs to be included in solution, right? And of course, making sure that the the submission is happening as per the as per the guidelines, right? So that should be it. Apart from that, like I always do, we will cover, of course, no doubt about this presentation you are seeing in front of you. At the same time, I do have some of the like I won't say it's a best solution, but just sort of the trade-offs, like one of the reference guideline solution, right? I I'm not going to run it end to end because I want to make sure that you spend your time on it right. But I'll just quickly show you some of the stuff right. Like okay, this is how we are creating chunks. This is how we are creating knowledge database. This is how we are creating a rag right, and ensuring that no questions left unanswered, right? Or making you a bit more comfortable on the on the implementation side. Okay. Apart from that, what else, right? Yeah. So this is the innovation deck. This I can share definitely with you. Solution I can't because you're still in the submission mode, right? But definitely I can recommend. I can definitely submit the deck which I have made, like what it will cover. This is again one-off. I'm not expecting you to have this. To be honest, if you have implemented the solution already, submitted it, great.

If you are in progress, this again can help you a bit. Okay. Lastly, I said I said earlier. So a few of you are from I think low code. Few of you are from full code version. So for the low code version, there is expectation of submitting a PPT right or a PDF. I'll say rather, right. So there would be one. I'll be just spending like again 1015 minutes on it just to give you a view, like what all slides you can cover. Okay, there's a template available on Olympus, but again, that's very high level, right? So it doesn't cover the the final details of the project. Okay, so I'll just go through this as well for the low code version folks here. Okay, again, like I said, the idea is just to get yourself familiarized with how to implement the solution, how to submit it, right, and making ensuring that you're happy with it, right, at the day. Okay, so I'll go through this as well. Like I said, the idea is let's get started with first about the rubrics. Okay, like the actual presentation. Like I said earlier, I'll take pauses in between to make sure I cover some other elements as well, right? To keep it interesting, engaging, and at any point of time you have any question, type it on chat. You can raise your hand. Where can we find the deck? Okay, Rakesh is coming over there. So Rakish, like I said, the deck is on Olympus. This is again. Now I'm just want to clarify this. If you're talking about, if you're asking deck, like which deck, the one which I am showing you, or the one which is already shared with you on Great Learning, one I'm sharing with you. Okay, so the one which I'm showing it to you, I'll be sharing it post class. Okay, there's a shared link drive there. I think I already have covered this last week as well. Let me quickly do it once again. Okay, you may have it already, but that's fine. Again, like I said, the expectation is not now, but maybe after the class. So let's go to your drive here. Right, AIAB, you are July back. So I'm definitely going to create one more folder for you, but this is where you can find all the content, right? So what I'll do is just for the safer side, create one more folder here. AIABA in July because we go in sync, right? So you are July back. So let's say July 26. Okay, and here what I can do is I can move the week one for sure, which we covered last week. Okay, this I can quickly copy paste it up. This cannot be copied. Okay, perfect, not a problem. Problem at all? It's fine. Let me see if I can copy the link. Okay, so node one thing would be copied here. Let's go back. I mean, this is your main folder. I'm just going to make it public as well. So within this, we can have a week two folder here, right? And keep equant also not a problem, and here I can you know put all this right like your agentic AI foundation deck report, and I'm not going to put the notebook like I said earlier. I that will be a breach of that will be a problem right. So just want to make sure you have all the other content with you, which you can easily digest with, right? This I can definitely put here. Okay, week one I'll do it later, so nothing to worry. You already have the link for the last week. Otherwise, I create one as well. But I'll just make I'll make it public so it's available to you. Here, let's say restricted. Anyone with the link done, and then copy the link. And yeah, you go okay. Perfect, right? So yeah, like I said, let's get started. Technically or tactically speaking, we just have one presentation, but like I said, I want to make sure you're comfortable, right, with with the solution approach and all. So I'll definitely cover some more elements here to make it a little bit more familiar, right? Because this is an unknown territory for you. You just started, right? Week one, and that's a project, right?

So it's it's it's unfair, at least in my at least for me, right? So I'll definitely make sure we'll go through some of the solution. Not not everything, because that's not a mandate, right? To go through the solution, but we'll go through some important elements, right? At the same time, I also covered the presentation part of things as well, and something on the overall, the brief of the project also. Okay, perfect. So, if no further questions, let's get started. I hope you have access to that shared that folder which I just created. Okay, if not, let me know. But that should be available to you. Perfect. Okay, so let's get into it. Let's see what we have to do as a background here, right? What's the project is all about. I think most of you have already have seen it. If not, it's okay. We have what's the problem statement here? Just a quick agenda. Keep recapping everything what we are going to see. We'll have a Q and A as well, right? Apart from what elements you have to include, that's evaluation rubrics, right? Submission guidelines, high-level HTML notebook for low code for high full code version people. For low code, it will be representation and of course FAQs. Okay, let's get started. So, what's the background here? Right. This again looks sort of theory, but let's try to decipher this with the presentation, and then I'll again go back to my tech also. That's a little bit more high level and number specific. Okay, so now we all understand what business analyst does, right? Try to think on those lines. I give you like 50 or 100 documents. You have to manually go through them, right? Read the specific, read each document carefully, highlight some of the key elements in there, right? And then create a sort of knowledge, you know, base out of it. Okay, so of course you can understand the complexity now, right? Because if you're talking about 50 PDFs, and each PDF is around 20 pages, 1000 pages. What a analyst have to go through, right? Ultimately, he's a human, so he is bound to have some, you know, bound to create some problems or errors, right? And that again can be, of course, time-consuming and erroneous as well, right? So definitely that can influence like how you can take out the key indicators, right, or key elements in the from a document, and that can affect the business decisions also, right? To to keep things simple in perspective, right? Let's let's try let's try to think from a different angle. Okay, I'm not talking the same same prod same problem statement, but maybe different business. If you have heard about let's say SNP 500 right, or let's say Finch Finch ratings right, these companies what they do they mostly give a rating to a company right. Like what are the prospects of that company doing well for the next let's say one year or so. No, what's the what's the investor sentiment, right? So now we have a lot of lot of intelligent analysts there, right? Who is analyzing or who is actually seeing the market, right? And based on it, they rate the company. So they have to go through millions of you know PDFs, right? That not only includes financial details of the company, but also includes the you know the the environment as well, right? Like we live in a nowadays we're living in a post I'll say war environment, right? Where every day you can see the crude oil goes up and down. So how it can impact, right? So of course they have to be on their toes to make sure they give a they can update those ratings also, right? Because that rating may not be consistent, right? That can change over the period of time, right? So again, lot of lot of reading, lot of analysis, but at the same time, the content keep on changing, right? So they need a way where they can quickly go through a system, see what's new, and then make a judgment instead of them manual reading those complex PDFs, right? So that's what they're saying here as well. Like very overwhelming if those are PDFs have to be read manually, right?

So is there a way we can make a system which can give which can where a system where a user can ask some queries, right, and get some responses, right. So that means it can save time. Okay. So now just switching gears a bit. Okay, coming back. So now let's think on a venture capital firm here, like a Anderson Hovis. They have a dense report from Harvard Business Review, right? Like how Apple is organized for innovation, so how they are doing those innovations, right? Like that talks about their principles, the leadership principles, the innovation principles, right? So manual reviewing, of course, will have a lot of significant effort. Okay, requires a lot of significant effort, of course, and that will slow down the process. Okay, that can also include missing vital elements there. Okay, so to overcome this information overload, businesses can create a sort of rag-based solution, right? So what we will do is again the the principle is the same, or the concept, the fundamental is same. We will take a PDF, parse it up, create chunks, store it in a in a knowledge base or a better database, Chroma DB, right? And then you will use LLM as a as an inference or as reasoning. The idea is we have to create that right and use LLM for the reasoning capabilities. Okay, so that becomes very easy for a analyst. Okay, so what will be the implication of this? Of course, that will reduce the work human. It will reduce our manual workflow, right? Include the sorry, improve the throughput, right? The efficiency, and definitely that will also help improved decision making, right? In terms of the investments, okay, and quality of results. Okay, so now what's the objective? What's the intent here? As a as a AI specialist, you can think of you have to develop a rack-based solution where this can extract visual insights. Right? We have one PDF today. I think it's 11 page worth, 611, or 17 page worth it. We'll check the exact details there. The idea is we will navigate through the challenges, right? How this dense documents can be streamlined using rag-based solution, okay? To make it a little bit more production ready for analysis for analysts, right? And we'll create a prototype for it, okay? That will summarize the key findings here, and we will do the natural language interaction, right? So we'll ask a simple, basic text-based questions to it. Okay, we're not doing anything, anything fancy. Just asking simple questions there. Okay, so here it is. It's a PDF with 11 pages. How Apple is organized for innovations that talks about the Apple's approach, how they structure the teams, how they drive the innovation and how they maintain a culture of excellence, right? So that will talk about the leadership principle, like I said earlier, operational design and decision making process. I'll take a pause. Just want to make sure you have the document with you. This is how it looks like, right? Let's open it. How Apple is organized for innovation. This is the Howard Business review, you know, case study you can think of, right? And it is you can see first page, then you have images also. Like I said, images is out of scope. Okay, so focusing on the text component of it, right? The idea is that you'll extract all the text using PDF parser, right? And then, of course, create chunks, blobs, store it in database, and then start querying around. Okay, perfect, makes sense. So let's go keep on going. Just making sure I have this is a solution approach. Okay, let's go back. So now let's talk about the Q and A, right? So again, like I said, open ended session. So by all means, you can ask questions. Let's get into get into the specifics of it first, and then, like I said, I'll make sure I'll cover some other elements as well. Okay, so this is a rubric, right? So what needs to be covered in the solution? What side the solution will look like? Okay, so you should have first a generic prompt. Okay, we'll just give some instructions using a simple GPT 4o model. I think it's mini. We'll again check the model there. Right. The idea is that yes, we'll have a simple prompts write written first. Okay, simple instructions you can think of.

Okay, then the second one would be prompt engineering. So here you will write the prompts, system prompts, and of course you will use LM for the reasoning, and that will contain that will almost include 14 points for that. Okay, writing a specific system system prompt. Then we will definitely invest. You have to invest time on the data preparation. That's where you will be using your chroma DB right chunking all that will come in data preparation for Rack. Then again, you will ask the same questions from Rag, but this time you will use knowledge base right and gather all the responses. And the remaining two portions here are the recommendations right, like you think from a solution point of view, okay. It can be very specific to the solution, or it can be like your thoughts, like how you can make it, how you can streamline it better, right? Like maybe you can use, let's say, make it make it multilingualistic, right? A person who is don't understand English, can it be multilingual also? And by all means, yes, LM can support multi-language support. You don't have to implement a solution, but you can just give some recommendations, right? Like how you can make the solution better. Okay, and finally, since you are making a presentation or let's say you're working on a notebook, you have to make sure the the notebook is perfectly structured, right? As in, you have all the comments nailed down properly, it's telling you a story, right? It should not be like connecting the dots, right? It should it should connect the dots really well end to end. Okay, so that will define by and that will have eight marks so that it speaks your your work. Okay, I'll stop here. We'll take each rubric separately. Okay, so now what I'll do is let's we'll just switch gears a bit again here. Okay, so we start with each rubric here. What I will do is I'll go to a notebook more also. Okay, I'll open the notebook. We will run through those like some of those blocks individually so that this becomes very easy to understand. Okay, and again, like I said, the solution which I am using may not be the best one. If you have a better solution, by all means, don't hesitate to put it up, right? But don't think the solution which I am showing you is the best. Okay, I'll be honest. That's now that's not how innovation happens, right? So you may have a better, way better approach than the solution what I'm showing you. Okay, so yeah, let's get into it now. Let's take each section individually and let's see what code has to be included. And like I said, correspondingly the presentation will come later. Like if you are from a low code version, I'll also support. I also show you the deck here, which I which is here, but I'll take it later. Okay, once we complete this rubrics, okay. I hope that makes sense. Perfect. Okay, let's keep on going then. Let's talk about the first one, right? Like what to cover with generic prompts. So what you have to do is these steps have to be covered up. You have to load a large language model. Okay. I think we are using GPT for a mini. Okay. You can load any props model from Hugging Face or proprietary model from OpenAI. So they are keeping it open. If you feel like Hugging Face, Mistral, 7b, or Llama, if you want to use right, you can use it. I still say for the safer side, if you don't want to take that pain for the project per se, you can stick to OpenAI. But again, it's your, it's open ended, right? So you can use any of the model. Then what you have to do is you have second thing is you have to create a function that will take the model parameters. I hope you remember model parameters. Last time we talked about temperature, top p, right? So those parameters, those are the arguments that you have to pass. Okay, can see here that needed for the LM, and of course the text query, the question which you're asking, or a business analyst is asking. So I'll take a pause. Let's go back to the solution now. Let's see what we have there. Okay, I'll just start here.

Just give me a sec. I think yeah we have it here. Let's go and now let's load the project here. Okay, so I'll just connect the notebook. These are three questions, by the way. Who are the authors of this article? Three characteristics, leadership characteristics. Explain right each of those in two lines, and any specific examples from the article where Apple's leadership approach has led to successful innovation. So I think the the discussion would be or the evaluation would be on these three questions only. Okay, so nothing else, nothing more. Just stick to these three. Okay, connected. Great. Let's install. Let's install the libraries here: LangChain, ChromaDB. I hope you know all this, right? PyMU PDF or PDF parsing, tick token. You have to tokenize it, right? You have to convert it into the same format. So I can understand. Okay, so use a tick token here. Just a tokenizer you can think of. Of course, you use a data set for parsing and LangChain OpenAI for the model. Okay, so install everything. Like I said, if you feel like it's getting little detailed, just feel free to stop me. But I just want to make sure what we are covering is what you are showing here, right? So, so there should not be any. Okay, let it run. It should it should be finishing anytime soon. Then we are using PyM Pym PDF loader from LangChain for PDF parsing, right? We are using for creating chunks. We are using recursive credit expliter, which we used last session. So nothing is changing from last week. Using OpenAI embeddings to convert those chunks into embeddings, right? The Chroma DB for your web database. Okay, that's all standardized. Just ignoring the warning if you don't want to see warning messages. Okay, and lastly, very important. Hoping you have a config.json right with you, where you will pass the open API key and open API base. Okay, there is a better way of doing it. Like you can see here, a key approach, a secret approach, but I don't want to talk about talk about this in this session. Maybe next session onwards because I just want to make sure submit the solution properly first. Okay, just so there's a better way of Key Vault. This was what Key Vault is secret, right? So what you can do is every time loading a Confidor JSON, you can create secrets, right, and keep it here. But again, like I said, that that can come later. It's not a big deal. Let's not deflect from the from the actuals, right? At least to the project submission point of view. Okay, perfect. So yep, everything looks good. Now what I'll do is, I hope you know how to do the mount, right? Like where you can create a folder, right, in your drive, which can which Google Colab can access right. So we already have Google Mount. I'm just going to put the PDF here, which is how Apple is organized for innovation. Right, just putting it inside the content, just making sure it's available right. At the same time, we also had to put the config.json. So there, this will have your open API key and base. Okay, so yeah, been loaded. Good. Let's load the JSON file. And here you can see the function. What I'm using, generate response. Okay, going back to the presentation to create a function, right? So loading loading the LM model and creating a function. So here you can see I'm passing the user input, which is the user query. Okay, for now I'm just keeping hard coded KSY because the first doesn't have any vector database, right? So there's no concept of documents. We're just keeping it here because this can be a generic function. We don't have to define the function again again. We can use the same function, right? For now, you can just ignore it. But ideally, we will take the top five when we go to the rack stage. Okay, maximum token that I'm selling is 500. Again, you can change this up to 1000 if you feel like. Page, sir. I hope you know this, right? Specificity versus randomness in the response. Keep it low. I still say keep it lower, but again, this is again try to think which which problem we are trying to solve here, right?

Like here, we are talking about leadership principles, innovation culture. So maybe you need some sort of you know, I'll say variety or interactiveness in your response. Okay, so maybe a temperature can go little higher. Temperature you keep very low when you want to be very specific. That this is what it is. That's it. Right? No, no x, no y's. Just the specific answer you're looking at. Okay, we do need the top frequent cringer term, so we'll keep top p as higher. Okay, point nine five. So it is how you remember this function. GPT 4o mini is what we are using. We are passing a prompt, right? Answer the question for now. Just just answer the question. That's the hard coded prompt. I'll say, and you pass the user input here. All these values have been already set for you, right? From the function, or you can pass it when you make a call, and we get the responses out. Okay, the choice is masses continuous strip. This will just make sure there is no empty, or you know, empty. I'll say space characters right in between the string, like at the start or at the end. Okay, so this is the functionality fine. Now let's go back. Let's see what we have to do now. We load the model and we get a function. Now what we will do is we apply the response generation function here, right, to get the answers of those questions. We can use a previous defined function which we used in last session. So it's the same function if you carefully observe what we saw last week and this week. Nothing is changing up, and maybe we have added just little bit prompt here, which was not earlier in the last session. But doesn't matter. You can either remove it, just pass one role use, or you can create a system and just pass a default prompt. It's not going to make any difference. Okay, so last week is perfectly valid as well. Last week function. Okay, and then what you have to do the last thing is provide the comment and the observation, right? So how do responses look like? Are they too generic? That's where you will have to you know use some sort of analytical approach just to see. Okay, is it like very document specific? How would it be generic? And it would be generic, right? Because we still didn't train anything. LM is using its own intelligence to give you the output, right? It's not recommend. It's not referring any knowledge source. Okay, whatever it has been trained on, it's just using that generic knowledge. So of course, it would be very generic response, right? It will get, it will generate for you. Okay, so yeah, let's run this up. Let's see what we are getting, right? This was the first question. Authors of this article, which article you're talking about, right? So everyone may not understand this, right? So let's try it out. Let's see what happens. Okay, clearly you can say it out. You can see I cannot access external content database to receive specific articles. If you provide me a title or some details, I am able to answer. I was able to help you with general information, right? And that makes sense, right? You're not talking about any based article talking about. Doesn't have any access to it, right? So that makes perfectly sense. That yes, now it has no visibility on the article, right? So it really can't do anything on it. Okay, now let's talk about the second question. What we have placed down three leadership characteristics and bulleted points, and explain each one of the characteristic in the two lines. Now, this characteristics can be very very specific. It's not specific to Apple. It can be a generic response. Okay, we didn't say anything about Apple here, to be honest, till now. Okay, so you can see it will give you a response again. That response would be very, very you know, generic in nature. It it won't be Apple specific. Okay, so let's run this. Let's see what happens. You can see visionary thinking, emotional intelligence, decisiveness, right? Effective leaders process able to create and communicate. Leaders with high emotion intelligence can understand and manage emotions. Excessiveness is strong leaders are able to make timed informed decisions.

Okay, this is not specific to Apple, but this is a generic response, which is fine as long as it doesn't have any specific subject and matter expert knowledge. Right? Let's keep on going. Now let's talk about the third question. Can you explain specific examples where Apple's approach leadership have led to successful innovations? Okay, so we'll just run run this now. Let's see what happens. Now here you have mentioned Apple approach, so maybe it will able to identify at least to a certain extent. Okay, again you can see don't have a specific article. I can provide a general overview of Apple's approach. Okay, so visionary leadership. Under Steve Jobs, Apple emphasizes a clear vision. Focus on design user experience. I'm not going to read all this right. Not a not great and you know like as an I'll say a more technical guy, a little bit less on the on the sugar coating side. So I'll just read it through, okay? For this, but not going to talk about the details of it. Cross function collaboration can see foster collaboration across different departments. Emphasis on innovation, continuously purchase for innovation, introduction of app store, right? Adaptability and market responsiveness. So these responses again, like if you summarize this up, right? This looks good, definitely, but this is not specific to that article, right? So it's again clearly mentioning it. I don't know which article you're talking about, but I can definitely talk about some generic characteristics. Okay, so that's where it is currently. Okay, so we can give observations here. Author and publisher is unable to be faced, right? Leadership characteristics, yep, concise explanation, but this is very generic again, and provide historical and generic app examples not grounded in the HPR report. So just give these three observations. This is what you have to summarize. Okay, after your first generic query prompt-based. outputs. Okay, now let's move to the second phase. Let's go back to the presentation now. Hope this makes sense, right? Now let's go to the second mode, which is your LM with prompt engineering, right? So here, what you have to do, you have to create a prompt engineering, or I'll say prompt instructions, right? And again, get the same answers to the questions. Questions, okay. So, what factors you can consider when engineering a better prompt for the desired output? You have to think on those lines. Maybe a better prompt. Okay, and if you want to fine tune some of the parameters, right, LM parameters here for creativity versus specificity. So, like I said, temperature is zero means very specific. If you want to be a little creative, your temperature has to be little broader or has to be close to one. So we can increase the the temperature value here, right? Like point 5.6, Okay, we can again see the threshold there. And again, make sure you comment out, observe, and change, comment on the change of the response, right? As compared to a baseline vanilla element, that's what we call it. Okay, so prompt can make itself make a huge difference in the change. Is it yes or is it no? We will validate it. Okay, so yeah, let me stop here. Let's go again quickly. System prompt. This is the one change you're making here. You're an assistant specializing in business analysis and strategy. Your role is to provide concise, actionable insights based on HBR article. How app is organized for innovation. So you are now passing actually the title of the of the document at least. Okay, in there. Okay, and what I'll do is whatever prompts I'm using here, I will share this with you. Okay, so nothing to worry. This is also I'm going to paste it on your on the same share drive after the class. Okay, so nothing to worry. Let us go back. Oops, sorry. In between, and then what it is right here? It is when answering question: prioritize factual accuracy. Focus on Apple's team structures, innovation practices, and decision-making approaches. Okay, had to make sure response is structured and easy to interpret for business analysis. So this is one prompt which you are adding here. Okay, rest all is pretty much same again. Nothing is changing. Same user questions. The prompt we have changed from from up. Right. This is the new prompt you're passing here. Temperature you can see is point three by hard code.

Hard code is point three, but we will change this when we are going to call. Now here you can see this article. Who published this? So this is a very specific detail, right? There can't be any creativity in it. If I am a your instructor, I am I am your instructor only, right? There's no there's no one else who can be your instructor. I mean, I'm not saying it's not possible, but if someone asks you, you will just say my name, right? You're not going to talk about stories or making stories here, right? The same thing is here. If you're talking about who publishes article, author of this article, it has to be very specific, right? So it can tell you like, okay, this is who is these authors. So in that case, your temperature can be close to zero because this is a very specific answer you're looking at. Okay, so let's define this again. Once again, run this once one more time. It's taking time. Okay, so here you can see David B. Offi and Michael A. Kusumano. Maybe he's just talking about some different article, right? Because if we go back to our actual article, this is not something which we have seen, right? Okay, let me open this once again. Sorry about this. This has been written by Joel M. Podani and Martin D. Hanson, right? If I go back, we are seeing some different authors. Maybe the same article, or maybe not the same article, but based on this, can be multiple articles published, right? By Howard Business Review. So the answers are maybe there's more than one document there. Okay, that can be one possibility. Does it answer your question? I'll say maybe no because we have a different article, right? But it is possible that same similar documents have been published by XPR. Okay, now what I have done here is just to change the temperature here, just to show you. It's not going to make difference because this is a very specific question. There's there's no innovation there. So even if you, I mean at least ILM now understand they don't have to, you know, change the response. Someone is asking about the author. It has to be author only, right? So in this example, the reason why I put both of these here is okay. Now you can see this has changed slightly, okay. But ideally the authors have changed, but overall still pretty much the text remains the same, right? There's no as the author was published by this and by these authors. Okay, so does it change anything? I'll say no in terms of response. Maybe the authors, some few new few new authors may have come in here. Maybe this is again different to a different article. Maybe it's hallucinating. Well, we can't validate it, right? Because for that you need to go to HBR, see all the documents published in that app, and then only you can make a judgment. Okay, but yes, here we can see these are two different outputs. So certainly, changing the temperature is making some difference. Okay, in terms of the authors, that's that's a high vision. That's a high level I can say. Okay, so just a recommendation. If you talk about very specific responses, I'll still say keep it very low, point 1.2, If you're talking about authors and publishers only, if you definitely want some like some variety or some diversity in the responses, then definitely you can increase your temperature. Okay, but if it's a very forward question. Just keep it very low temperature. Okay, in this case. Okay, move on. It's moving on to the next question. Okay, great. Luke is saying hello. Hello, before I set up the rag. Luke, is it is it specific to this response, or you did did use something and that hallucinated? Maybe you can. I'm just trying to understand. Sorry. I'm

just saying overall. I it basically hallucinated based on the temperature setting before I set up the the specific.

Okay. Okay. Yeah, that makes sense. And

what I mean is, is it it it basically gave the incorrect authors to the article.

Correct. Yeah, I totally get your point. Here also we can see right, like the authors' name have changed significantly. So yes, as long as not rag, we don't know which document it's talking about, right? And which way it's going and which what document exactly it's pulling up. So I know it's little difficult. Perfect. Okay, but again, there's a there's response to it as well. Like here, you can't see, but if you guys are using Gemini, right, or any of like say Claude, when you ask a question, do you see citations there? Like it, it refers to like this is from the source it's coming from. Let me quickly show you up since you raised a good point. Okay, like I just asked question oil change, right? So I think maybe it's not here. Yeah, let's go to donate a benefit plan. Maybe this is something you can see here, right? I'm sharing my personal details, but you can see here, right? Like this is this is actually is a citation, so it talks about from where the information is being pulled. Okay, so now when when I roll the chatbot right in our Lululemon, right, the idea was they want to see the citations, the exact source location. So you can click on this, and it will tell you okay from where this is being pulled off. Okay, so this is again one of the ways to safeguard, or at least to check the authenticity of the source. So when we create RAG again, just I know this is a little off topic, but it's important. Like when we create RAG, you can ask for citations. You can, I mean, explicitly if you see the meta data, it's it's there already. But in when I rolled the solution in Databricks Knowledge Assistant, right? We have a tool known as Knowledge Assistant where you can get rid of the front end development and all that, you know, Gradio and Flask. I mean, think of it like it's a tool for you. You just have to give the documents. You have to write this. I mean, little bit of fine tuning you have to do on the model side, on the parameter side, but mostly it will give you citations. So it can definitely be a full bulletproof evidence that this source, this content, or this output is coming from this document. So that way, it becomes easy. Here we don't, we can't see it. I totally agree, right? But in some other platform, it gives you citations also, like from where this is picking up. Okay. Anyways, it's coming back. Love topic. Added that it's going to change either temperature or top P, but not both the same time. What do you think? I mean, my understanding is now this is a this is little debatable actually. I have to get into specifics of it, like why I can't change both. But again, top P is something. See, top P is like the most popular occurring words you're talking about, right? Like they're popular in corpus. That that will populate in the response. That's my understanding. Okay, so temperature is something which is on the specific question you're asking, like how much diverse you can be in the response. Top P is like mostly on the top occurring words, or I'll say the important words, and that has to be in the top in the response. So I'll have a double check on this, Victor. But for me, maybe doesn't matter. Like it's not like that you can't change one or you can't change both. You can like you can we can do an experiment and see right. Like, but I am not in agreement that you can't change both. the the The objective both different, right? Top P is like the most frequently occurring words you want to pull from the response, right? From the corpus, I'll say. And here, temperature is totally on the response of the question. Like, is it very specific or is it like diverse? Okay, so we can do that experiment and see. Okay, but I'm not going to agree with this, to be honest. Right? Again, very subjective. depend depends in certain situations. I'm just thinking on any of the use cases with where it can be applied. But I'll double check. I'll I'll come back on this. Just just think on this. Maybe the medical domain is something.

Bio. If I think about the healthcare, right, or biomedical domain. So if you want a specific focus, then even then you will top. You keep a top PS five, a top PS higher. Okay. So it's it's debatable. Like on this case, which situations you think that you can't apply, because in even biomedical domain, I don't see any hiccups there. As long as you can increase one and decrease one, you can decrease increase both together same time. Okay, but I'll double check. Okay, I'll come back. I haven't I haven't heard it to be honest, so I'm not I'm not sure from which way this is coming from, but I don't see any constraints on that. Okay, like you can't do can't touch both together. Oh yeah, yeah. Let's complete this up. Okay, let's keep on going. But definitely, I circle back. Okay, I promise on that. So let's go ahead, list down three leadership characteristics and bullet points. Now here, what we are doing is we are not touching the temperature value. I think it will be point three only, the default in the function. And here you can see I'm changing top from point nine five to point eight five. Right, that's what I am pretty much. So I'm just checking the function once again, so here you can see 0.9 by default, and we are changing it to 0.85. Okay, let's see what happens. Okay, it will take time. Just behave with me. So strength, the leadership characteristic, be general rethinking, collaborative mindset, right? Emphasis collaboration across diverse teams and decisive action. So here, say for making swift and informed decisions, help maintain momentum in projects. Okay, so now what we'll do is let's see. Let's. I'm just going to apply that change which you mentioned, right? So let's see what happens worst case, right? Again, we are doing experiments. So let me do this. Temperature is okay just before top P. So I can say temperature as let's say point five maybe, and I can change the top P to point five. Now let's say what happens. I'm changing both, right? Yeah. Sorry, temperature should be T M P A. Okay, my bad. Just passing the wrong parameter name here. Okay, let's see what happens between rethinking. It was there already. D T S Apple pos a clear and compelling vision. Collaborative culture. I think that's also coming. Mindset culture slightly changes. It's okay, right? Because we have changed the temperature, right? So no doubt this will change a bit. That's fine. Apple forces a kind of collaboration where cross-functional teams across diverse teams, cross-functional teams, right? So you can see the keywords are slightly changing. Maybe because we have seen top PS point five only, right? So not all the popular words are coming in there, so some sort of term. I mean, terminologies are not terminology, but the corpus wordings are changing here. Diverse perspectives, breaking silos, encourage cross-functional partnerships. So, saying the same words, but maybe these words, the words which you are seeing here, are not that popular coming from the corpus, right? As compared to these other ones, which are little bit more, you know, important. I'll say, okay, but more or less, if you see any difference, let me know. Call it out here. Discipline of action. This action is also coming, okay. For many certified informed decisions, for making certain informed decision, this is quite similar. This is enable the company to capitalize on opportunities to make quickly and maintain a competitive edge, efficient and effective, ensuring innovation momentum. So yeah, you can see some of the like I said, you know, some top P like in terms of the wordings. Some new words have been introduced here, which are not that popular. But honestly speaking, the top three leadership are still pretty much same. I'm not changing. So wordings can change here and there depending on how popular though they are. But I'm still seeing the answers have been addressed in the same way. Okay, so maybe in this particular data set, or I'll say business line or vertical, I may not see any difference. Like you can increase one, you can't decrease one, or I see one. But maybe a better. Let me think on this in the background. I'll definitely see if I can find a solution there.

Maybe for a biomedical domain, I'm thinking on the surgical operations, which we surgical procedure which we did last week, right? That can be specific to specific knowledge base, but I don't see any other use case here where it may not apply. Okay, perfect. Let's keep on going. Let's do the third question as well before we go to the next mode. So here I'm getting temperature 90% Very very it was point five. We are now going a bit more diverse, right? Leadership examples. Here it is. Collaboration, collaborative team structure. We have increased the temperature, right? So this will be more diverse. Employs a unique team structure. Emphasize collaboration across various disciplines. Then what else we have? Second, we have is top vision, top down vision with bottom up input. Okay, help them clean it. Yeah, innovation common. Just trying to see anyway. Focus on design and user experience, engaging a culture of experimentation and integration of software and hardware development. You can see it has stopped there because I think we have the maximum of 500 tokens, right? So it's very stock. So now you can see if the temperature have increased overall. Let me do this right. Let's take the same thing now. Increase the temperature. Decrease the temperature a bit. Let's see what happens. I say temperature 60 right for now. Let's keep it little less. I'm pretty much sure the the variety of the response, the diversity in the response will slightly you know, change. So yeah, you can see here now, right? Of oh, still pretty much same. Certainly, yep, still same thing. Strong making changes. Cross functional collaborative team structure. Cross functional teams versus collaborative team structure. Same thing again. Just changing the words a bit. I don't get top P here, and iterative development, iterative feedback loop. So words are there, but still it's changing a bit, right? Prototyping. I think the outputs are almost similar. Maybe the wordings here and there, emphasizing on design user experience, maybe this will be more evident. You know, if you go to a rack system, I think right. Like for now, it's a little bit very, very emphasizes on user design, integration of software development. So you can see here some outputs have changed, right? Engaging a culture of experimentation, emphasis on user design experience, focus on design your experience, right? Focus versus emphasize. Again, it's the same thing. So more or less, you know, even increasing temperature is not changing, you know, phenomenally. You know, the outputs, right? Again, some of diversity I say may reduce, but more or less points are still pretty much identical. Okay. Okay. Great. So again, like I said, I'm a surgeon matter expert, so can't entirety of it. But I'll from a from a from a horse's mouth, I can say definitely most of the points have been included, right? I think most of the terms are also pretty much same, right? You can reduce it further to 40 or 30, and let's see what happens in that case. Okay, do one more experiment and let's validate it. If going to change the temperature here to point three will make a difference or not? Okay, or maybe we don't need to because just a default value what we have there. Let's see. Let's there's no harm in real fast, right? You see here. Let's see. I did a feedback loop. Same thing again. Cross functional teams, cross functional teams here. So, is it making any changes, engagement, or risk taking? Okay, so do we have risk taking approach here? If I'm not mistaken, top down leader approach, focus on key projects, additive feedback loops, culture of secrecy and surprise emphasis on design. Now here you can see risk taking. This is interesting. So as you keep on decreasing temperature, right? This is getting a bit more focused on risk taking approach. Okay, maybe this is one point I am seeing it little different. Feedback do the same. It only it only have five. If I'm not mistaken here, right? You can see five principles. Previously, it was six. So I think you're getting temperature. Maybe you can see it's getting a little bit more focused, right? Six here, six were already there. So temperature maybe 90 and six years are making any difference, but it's getting close to zero, reducing the overall. I mean overall points also okay.

Any best practice select both temperature and top P values? Ratnal, again we have to think what exactly you're looking at, right? Like if you if you ball if you want a ballpark, I can definitely comment. Like mostly top P recommendation values are between somewhere around 60 to 90% Okay, depending on depending upon again which vertical you're talking about. Okay, like I am just thinking on those cases where your top P can be low. Maybe in those cases where you are working in a domain where there are a lot of jargons, like when you're when you're trying to create. I'm giving a very dumb example here, but let's say if you are creating your own language of yourself, right? Like TTYL, like when you do us when we do chat, right? So we use short forms and acronyms there, right? So a very specific knowledge, a very specific domain where acronyms have been used, right? Maybe it's talking about same concept, and you just have to define it with two or three words you're talking about holistically about different concepts, right? So there, I can feel like that. Yes, maybe you can keep your top P as low, right? Because they may not be those terms may not be very popular. Let's say one more example: If you're doing a PhD thesis, right, on a specific topic, again, I'm going to rag, of course, but there that that drug name will only be coming once or twice, and then it will be referred by its acronym, right, or it's by scientific name. So there, maybe you can use a top low top P, right? Because the chances are that that word may not be used extensively throughout. Okay, like there are some drug names which are generic in name, but they are those the scientific names or their I'll say biological names are very complex, right? Like no one uses Homo sapiens; we use human being, right? So on those on those verticals, I definitely say top P should be low. Okay, so again, like I said, depends on the vertical, but 99% of cases, if you are getting a chatbot or let's say any ticket reimbursement or any you know planner you know agentic systems or any ecom which I have worked on mostly, right? So I'll say mostly that 60 to 90% top P is good enough, right? Because again, you want to make sure you talk about on those words which are popular, which a user can understand, right? You if very complex English, right? You may not understand it, okay, or some comments. That's why we keep top P as higher. So there is a lot like most frequently a print terms, which comes in day-to-day language or work, okay. Now, contrary to this, let's let's let's take a step back, right? Talking about the temperature now. So, like I said, in chatbot, the again the nomenclature says around 30 to 50% of temperature. Also, to be honest, right? We don't 90% diverse it. We are here for the experiment, but in a chat box, someone asking a question, we'll keep it 650 to 60% only, right? Now there is a catch to it, like the Gen AI platforms which you are using, Gemini or I'll say Claude, right, Azure, whatever you are using. Sorry, ChatGPT. So they are they are keeping it purposefully high because they want to make it interactive. So if it's come out, if it's talk about creativity, you have to keep that temperature value high. Okay, but like I said, if I am designing a solution, of course I'll use a rack system, no doubt about it. But if it's a rack system, the temperature value can be around just a ballpark, right? 30 to 630, to 50 at max, or 60, and the top P will still be higher because I want to make sure I only show those words which are normal conversational words. Okay, so I'll keep that somewhere around 50 to 80. So that's like a ballpark. Okay, again, it can change, but if it's a day-to-day work, simple systems, maybe. Okay, perfect. So here the observation. Now let me take a pause. I think we are going a little bit off track, so I'm just making sure everything is intact here, right? So we have the author and publisher here, right? Matthew Eme and Harvard Business Review. It has improved now.

I don't know on what basis they are getting. Do we have Matthew in the actual document? I don't think so. Right, we still have modern and jewel, so I still say it's a hallucination. Again, you can definitely you know pour your thoughts here. I mean, like I said, this is not the golden notebook. Okay, getting little better for sure. Like even if any of a document has been published, but it is now at least talking about some author. Previously, it says I have no idea. So, from that perspective, it at least now sends something. So, I think on that perspective, we are doing comparison, right? The leadership characteristics, yes, this has been come into account as well. Concise reports, specific explanations, and also talking about some specific contextual examples, right? MacBook, Apple, iPod, I. I mean, this iPad. If you carefully observe, we talk about the iPhones, right? And the iPods, of course. You can see iPhone here, right? iPhone here. Similarly, we'll have MacBooks. They're talking about some innovation again. Very generic, but yes, this is Apple specific for sure, right? So this, so this implementation is at least slightly better than what we have seen than the first one. Okay, so yeah, time for a pause now. Okay, I think we are almost halfway mark. Let's see here where we are now in terms of the explanation. So now we have to start with data preparation for RAG. Okay, so let's do this. Let's let's see the preparation part, and then I'll say five minutes, six minutes from now, we'll take a break. Okay, if that's fine. Okay, so we start with the preparation for rag now. Let's do everything here. At least knowledge-based creation we can do, and then we can take a quick break and come back. Okay, here it is. Now, what we have to do for the rag? We have to load the data file provided, the PDF loader by by new PDF from LangChain. Had to make sure if you are using text splitter technique, you you have recursive catter text splitter, right? So you can use that library here. Make sure you are talking about the chunk size. I still say keep it consistent. 256 512 tokens in one chunk, right? And maybe 26. Oh, sorry, not 2616. or 32 characters or 32 tokens. Sorry, my bad, as they overlap. Okay, and then making sure which loading, which embedding model you're loading, just make sure you use you choose the OpenAI embedding model. Okay, you can use the transformer model also to be honest, but I still say let's have one tech suite so that you get the best marks at least in the production in the project point of view, and definitely you can do experiments on the side also, right? But project should be very specific. That's it. Take a pause. I'll take just wait here. It's quickly showing you up here. So we have a PDF file, right? Now there is something wrong here, so I just rename it. For some reason, I downloaded four times, so that's why you can see a hyphen four. So I'll just rename it. Make sure the same name PDF I have right. I'm loading a PDF file here and a PDF loader, and here it is right. Same function what I have used last week. Recursive character text splitter. It's used as 300k base. This is like an encoding. Okay, so when you are creating your text two tokens, right? You encode it in a in a format. So this encoding is standard for your OpenAI format, right? Think of it like you're making sure it's the same, you know. I'll say encoding standard you're using. Okay, so it doesn't get lost. Now the chances are, if you're using, let's say, any other model, not OpenAI model, let's say I'll say maybe Hugging Face model, right? Some other transformer model. This encoding may change. Okay, so always remember that because every model has its own specific set of encoding standards when it when it gets in the model gets created, right? So ideally, what I do is I go to Hugging Face Transform Model, see the encoder which is used, and just pass it here. Okay, we are using already a pre-baked solution in LangChain, so I say stick to it.

But just giving a heads up that if you are using a different model, the odds are that encoding can also change. Okay, here it is, and then you can see the chunk size: 512 tokens with 20 chunk overlap, which is again standard. Like I said, 256, 512 chunk overlap. Maybe between 16 to 32 is the is the threshold, right? Which we achieved. Okay, so that has done. Now we have Peter chunks, just one liner of code. Can see here how many chunks we have. 25. This is a smaller PDF, right? So 25 chunks is more than sufficient. Now, if you want to access any of the chunks to see what where what exactly it's in there, you can just print this up. Okay. So here is the important thing. Here, what you want is page content, right? So document chunks. It's a it's a document. You can see it's a document, right? So, if you're not sure how to access it, you can ask Gemini to see where I can. You know how can I access it? But the submit title information is there, of course. And at the same time, you have a page content. So I think we are going to pull the page content because that's where your text lies. Okay, like Howard Business Review in November 2020, this article is made available to you with complements of Apple Inc. So if you again just search with this, you will see which page you're talking about. So go back to Apple document and just see here. Yeah, you can see the article compliments of Apple. Right, this is page first, and the chunk this port. I hope this is the one. This is coming multiple times. So maybe I put the wrong example. This is a footer, right? So I think this is coming everywhere, right? So this is not a good example. This is like I mean you can again see Howard Page Review, Business Review, and November. So you. got the pointer. This is like a photo, so it will be available in all the throughout. Okay, you can change it and print it right. Let's say I need to see the first chunk here. So first chunk is you can see how business review this article is meant to you. So this is the first chunk, so I think this should be at the top. Get this one. Second, this would be here, right? How Apple is organized. This would be the one here. December 2020, Howard Business Review is what you are getting. Okay, this is chunk one, and the zero, of course, starts with zero, right? Just a heads up. Okay, great. Now, not very important. Now let's talk about the embeddings. How you're going to convert that chunk into embeddings, right? So using OpenAembedding model, passing the key and the base, the URL of it. So get the embedding model loaded. And now what I will say is just create a vector database here on your drive. Okay, on the content mount drive. You can say Apple DB if does not exist, create one for you. So just run it, create this for you. Keep on refreshing. So you can see now Apple DB created a folder for now, and now I'll say get take all the documents from the chunks, take the embedding model, persist, add to a database. What you're creating and under this folder, yes, this gets created. Okay, going back to my actual, you know, thing. You can see which embedding model we chose, what size thing has been done right for us. Then we load our database here. Okay, enable retrieve faster documentation. Enable retrieve relevant documents. So you can use any value. We are using five. If you remember that function, right? So you can use three or five. And again, if you use Azure K, that the context is broad, broader, and the query requires more supporting information. So you can use five. I'll say that's a good ballpark. That's again standard, stand industry standard. But sometimes you know if we have millions of let's say images or document text here, right? Sometimes you can also create image embeddings. So I remember one of the solutions when I which I implemented, we were having millions of images. Think about like a GitLab. Have you heard about Getty Images, right? So I worked there as well.

So there we were using image recommendations. So maybe five images may not be sufficient. So there I increased to the the. So we have text captions and the image embedding. So we multiply. We kept them both. We call it multi model MME, multi media model layer. So hold the text and the image embeddings together. So the idea was that maybe five is not a good is not a good number. You may need more images. So we kept it, I think, 50 or 100, right? When we retrieving it from the knowledge vector database. Okay. So again, depends which which like here it's traditionally simple text chunks, so it's not a big deal. So you can have 510, chunks maximum, right? But for images or some other recommendations, you may need more. So we need to pull the may to may need to make this K as larger as possible. Okay, so yeah, here it is, and then finally the vector store gets created. See the right is just give it some time. I think it's a very small document, so it should be ready now. So here you can see it's created here, right, for you. And here you are defined the retriever, like how many documents you want to retrieve or how many chunks you want to retrieve. Okay, specifically. So I'll say give me four similar chunks. Okay, and again, like I said, you can make this number as five, three, whichever you're comfortable with. Okay, just with top K, and now here we can just use one simple pass a simple query to get what you are getting here, right? Who are the authors of this article and who publishes article? I am asking this question. This takes using input, give me the relevant chunks. Okay, so get relevant documents is what I have used in retriever, and it will give me the top relevant chunks here. So these are relevant chunks, and you can print these now to see what you are getting. So I am retrieving. I am iterating through all these chunks. Is here chunk two? This article is made available to you with complements. Articum is available to you right here. You can see photographer Michael Jensen and Joel M. Pauldini Ann. Again, we are not using any LM for now. We're just retrieving. This is a retrieved. I'll say you know chunk here. Okay, makes sense. So you can print like documented page content. So again, you get the code, and then you can you will give this top four to your ILM, and the LM will tell you the answer now. That's where it will use the reasoning capability, but it will only focus on these these four chunks. Okay, perfect. So these are three, like I said, four chunks available. There is the first chunk starting with number two, then this is the second chunk starting from five, then third chunk is here, third, and then the fourth chunk is this one. Harvard Business Review. Again, I I totally agree. Some will be relevance. I would be, but so remember which chunk is just opposite to it, right? Metadata information will also be there, and if you just want to see the content, right? You can just say chunk dot page content, and this will give you the exact details. We are just seeing just seeing how many like what's the length of the characters in it. But if you want to see the chunk, just go here and give me the page content. So this will tell you okay. This is the content here. Okay, stop now. This has been done. Let's see if anything else is missing here. We'll definitely come onto the like I said. I'll just we just take a quick break. Okay, so this is done. The database has been loaded. Retriever has been defined. Right, this looks good. So now we'll start with question answering. But we'll take a quick break. Come back in two minutes to make sure you guys can grab some water, right, and come back. Okay, so yeah, let's revisit the questions answering with Rag once we are back. Okay, so we start with the design prompt. So yeah, let's catch up in two minutes, 1012, Okay, we'll keep a break short because I think we have too little.

We have to cover a little bit more on the presentation side as well, like the slides, the deck, and make sure that's also included. Okay, so see you in two minutes from now. Okay, let's get started. Apologies for delay, guys. So there was daughter just fell, so he's taking care of her. She's fine now. Okay, great. So yeah, let's get started. So we are here, right? Designing a system prompt. So now here it is. You are an assistant designed to support business analyst and strategist. Okay. So your task is to provide concise, actionable insights. User input will include necessary context for you to answer their questions. So this is now we explicitly mention this knowledge base, okay, as a context. So the context will begin with the token context hash hash hash right, and that will have specific portions of trusted business reports, case studies, and research articles, okay, relevant to the query. So these are some of the guidelines and some of the constraints like crafting response using the provided context. If the answer is found, respond with concise, actionable business insights. Include the source reference in the page section of the report name. So we are asking which section you're talking about. This is from metadata. Okay. So if you print again those chunks, you will see the metadata information also there. Which page number, you know, all those details you can get there. If the question is related to the context, clearly respond. Sorry, this is out of my knowledge base. Okay, so again, some of the constraints here: clear, direct answer, no additional information, avoid rephrasing or summarizing. No relevant answer exists. Respond with sorry if the content is not provided. Sorry, this is our space. Okay, and this is the here answer colon the business context and the source would be here with the detail space section. Okay, now I have like I said I have created a word document here for you guys, right? Which I'll be sharing after the class, so you can use this. There's no, there's no nothing wrong in there. If you want to use this prompt, you can use it, right? So attach this to the to the same link. Okay, so let's run this now. Want to make sure we are not, you know, we don't here. So let's run this now. And here you can see this is a Q&A user message template where we are passing a question, the context for knowledge based on the question you're asking. Okay, this will give you a message template. So now again, same rag response. This this time we create a new function known as rag response. Okay, passing the user input top five SK top K chunks. Maximum doc is 500. Temperature we keeping again same value 0.3 and 0.95. Getting one here, you can see concatenating it with a in a string with the.as a delimiter. So like let's say five chunks, so they will be in one string delimited by a full stop address space. Okay, pass a context. These this becomes a context now for the LLM, and then you ask the question. Of course, okay, we'll pass to the GPT four mini with the user message, the temp, the system prompt, right? And then all the parameters are passed here, and finally you can see we are stripping the content, right? Making sure the response have no empty spaces at the start or the end, and we finally get a response. Okay, so now let's get started. Let's see what happens. This has the first question here. Question one. I'm just making sure we have we are in agreement. So before asking that question, let me go back once again to the presentation. So here you can see answer the question, get all the responses, fine tune the chunking retriever LM parameters. I think we did it already, right? Different combinations, some different parameters if you want, and finally how the response get changed. You have to log it. Okay, so yeah, let's pass on these three questions first. So now I can see we are spot on Joel M and Morton T, right? Makes sense. And now you can see source is giving you Harvard Business Review. So you can search with this that page writer and detail is here, right? This here source. Now what we are asking is three leadership qualities.

Same question what we have passed earlier. So you can see deep expertise and measure the details. Willingness to collaborate collaboratively debate, and again the source is Howard Business Review, number December 2020. Okay, this is a document. Okay, just drinking loud here. With this again, this may be spread out across. That's why they're saying the same document is a is available here. Okay, so deep expertise. You can print. You can just search it here, right, for the safer side if you want to. Like here, you can find. See, deep expertise is here, right? Let's see deep expertise is there, right? Three leadership principles. Here you get CDT expertise here, right? So similarly, we're coming on on the other details as well. I'm just thinking loud wise, just giving us one thing here. That's that's interesting. When when it gives when it gives locations from different like when it picks the summaries right it mostly picks the exact meta information so for now it's giving the document which is quite interesting otherwise mostly maybe we just have one document here that's the reason otherwise you know like when you are dealing with multiple pages right so that actually points out towards that specific title link of a document, right, or the title of a document. So I think maybe just we just have one. That's why it's just giving you one source, okay. But in multiple, you can expect multiple, you know, titles if it's coming from multiple documents, of course. Then third question again on the leadership side. Okay, so now here you can see it has gone a little bit more detailed. How is organized by Joel and Podney and this? So one specific example: the development of dual lens camera with portrait mode. Another example is Roger Rosner, who has Apple software application business, engineering appears companies and discretionary pressure shipping qualified right into VPN directors. Again, this is coming to document and maybe suggest got a bit more detail about the author and the publisher. But I think the business source is still the same document only. Okay, now just out of curiosity, I did the fourth question, and this is not something that you're expecting, but I just want to see we want FIFA, right? So pool and FIFA 26. It's all over now, but just to see that does not hallucinate, right? So this you can now see it says this is out of my knowledge base. This is can't answer that question, right? So this idea is that yes, it's not hallucinating and giving you the only it is only bound to give Apple based you know solutions. So this is observation now, right? So deep expertise, machined retail leadership characteristics has been covered. Innovation examples have been taken care of as well. Just for the safer side, if you want to see here, you can just go back to my development exists, right? You can see this is one, whatever productivity app you're talking about, the investment examples is all feature lined in that document. Okay, so conclusion is here. Can contextual relevance have been enhanced for sure? Okay, we have optimized embeddings for very domain-specific lookup, or I'll say accuracy. Knowledge update can be continuous. This is what we do, right? Like even the chatbot, which I which I have decided to live in, right? So we get this every week that keeps on changing. So we have a cron job which picks specific documents from different locations, right? We have some in SQL database. We have some in S3 bucket, right? Some policies are documents in databases also, right? So what we do is we through an MCP server. So again, this is the next milestone coming into your to your portfolio, right? I think two weeks from now, like how agents can connect to MCP, right? Ideally, here as a tooling, we can connect to different data sources, right? Like databases, S3 bucket, Google Store, right? API endpoints, webhooks. We can grab different sources and collect the data, right? Every week, so that if anything new comes up, we can update the document. Okay, or update the knowledge base. So it's very important, right? You have to have RAG which is continuously updated. Like I said earlier, multilingual support can also be possible, right? Because you want English, but what about different languages, right? Feedback integration. This talks about human in the loop, HITL.

This is one of the famous topics. Also, I think we will be covering it again in RAG, right? Somewhere five, six weeks from now. But think of it like you know, if you if you are not happy with the answer, right? What you can do is you can provide a feedback. So what it does, it takes the question and the response, and then you feed it back to your system, saying you know what for this question, focus on such responses. So it learns, okay, ideally speaking. So this is like HITL, I say, in your rags systems. Scalability, yes, of course, right. So you can see here the best part about rags is we are using Chroma, we can use FAI SS, right, different databases and they are scalable, so they can hold at least millions of documents or PDFs. So that's like more on the scalability side. Okay, I don't. I think I just put this note for the conversion. So now let's go back. This is all what you have to do in a solution. I just see some comments here. Let's see. Memo was presented, but the default prompt did not provide authors. Virgil is saying it. So Virgil, this is for your rag based or for the generic based. Maybe it would be interesting to see like what prompt you are passing here, right? Because prompt can also change the behavior, right? I'm just trying to understand. Is it like your specific? I hope I'm making sense, right? What I'm asking the question is: Do you did you get when you when I joined the first question? This prom did not provide the authors. So I talking about I'm talking about which mode are you talking? Like this is like the prompt engineering with rag only prompt engineering or only simple question with rag okay okay if that's the case maybe like I said right if that's the case the prompt which you have written right that's the only thing I thinking right for now like the rag like you are writing a system prompt here, right? Q&A system message. Okay. So what I'm trying to say here is maybe this can be one reason that your prompt is not, you know, maybe smiting some details there. Maybe when you created the chunk, I don't think chunk should not be issue because it's clearly mentioned the authors are this, right? So I don't think there should be an issue with the chunking, to be honest, so maybe it's worth to have a look, right? Like I don't mind spending like if we finished it, let's say by 1045, maybe screen or something, or your or any of your prompt, right? We'll be happy to see, okay, what's in there, okay? So more than happy if you can paste the snippet of it. That would be help. That would be helpful. Oh yeah, sorry. Yeah, let me complete this up. Okay, I just want to make sure we complete this, and definitely I'll take the questions. So please don't mind at all. Just making sure that we cover all the no points here. Finally, I already covered the actionable insights, right? What to cover the key takeaways. Okay, so you can put around those four five points like multilingual support, scalability, feedback loop, right, all that stuff, and the presentation over quality is also important. Make sure your presentation, all the relevant details like numbers, what you have learned, the prompts, everything should be there in the presentation also, right? So making sure you create a well-documented executed code. Same with the focus on the key points. All sections should be included in the appendix. Okay, so now some of the guidelines. Low low-code version. Okay, I just have to go through it, guys. So just bear with me. Maybe five minutes. I promise 510 minutes maximum, and then we'll definitely go to the Q and A mode also. Right. So for those who are in the manager roles, they have to develop a solution review. This will be a presentation, like I said. So there is a template notebook attached in your Olympus. I think. Okay, you can use that template notebook. It would be like a fill in the blank. So you just have to fill in some details. Okay. So it should not be a big deal. But ideally, that notebook, right?

You have to submit a presentation, so that's what you're going to create here. Okay, a slide. I'm going to show that slide also. Stay tuned. Okay, and that should clearly have all the observation insights and recommendations. The template, template, the presentation template has been referred to as a sample, and you have to make sure you submit as a PDF and not a PPTX. Okay, make sure you understand this, and making sure again all the rubrics which you just discussed happen there. Okay. So yeah, let's talk about the full code. Let me complete this up, and then I go to the presentation, show you the slides. 27 slides are there roughly, and then I also show you how to convert your IPYMB to an HTML, because ultimately you will be submitting an HTML file, not a notebook, for low full code. I'm talking about okay. So you have to for the this is for the learners who are doing a hands-on, okay, from scratch. There's the learner notebook again attached on Olympus. This is again a skeleton of it. Just and again, write the necessary code. Make sure you clear note of all the observations, and you should convert this IPY into an HTML file. Okay, there are some free online tools you can use. I'll tell a better way of looking into it. This is this looks like a spam to me. Okay, this HTML to PDF. You can use it. Not a problem at all. But this has a lot of ads, right? So for some reason, I don't really cover your table. So I kept the code here for you guys, right? Like how you can use. So what you can now just see here, if you carefully observe, what you have to do is let's say you have you have the notebook ready. So my notebook is sits here, right? Social notebook project once. So let's say let let me just rename it to let's say Apple HBR. Right, I'm just making it little simpler. Okay, Apple HBR IPYNB. Now what you can do is either you can download it. It's totally all call, right? If you want to do it. Okay, just download as a IPYNB. Not a problem. Okay, you can see it get. Now go to a second. You know, I'll say browser where you can just create one simple notebook, right? A simple dummy notebook, and you can load your file here. Slash content. Let's go to downloads apple hpr.ip ynb, right? So what I'll do, I'll just inside the content folder. Okay. So now you can see Apple SBS sits here. So now what you have to do, just give the name, the exact location. It's a copy path here, right? You can say Apple Asbury. Now here you what you are seeing is I am saying give me a command, Jupyter notebook convert to HTML and current notebook name. Okay, so we are passing the parenthesis within this name, right? So just say here, right? Convert HTML. Okay, now what will happen is this case convert it to HTML. Okay, just refresh it once again. Now you can see HTML file. You can download it or you can open it. It's perfectly fine, right? So just download it here, and this is what needs to be submitted. So if I now open it, you can see this looks like a notebook. Okay, this is a notebook as an HTML file, right? So you can see whatever you ran, everything is here. Makes sense. So what I'll do is I'll just copy paste this command for you guys, okay, on the chat here. Sorry, my bad. Let me quickly. I'll I'll come on the questions. I just stay tuned. I just want to make sure I complete everything and then take all your. This is what you need, right? Just make sure you have this command. Jupyter notebook convert to HTML and the current notebook name. You can even ask the Gemini to be honest, right? Just give me the code to convert .ipy to HTML, so it will give you a command. Okay, so I'm not doing anything different, just like the code. Or if you have any issues with you know the command line, you can select a file from here. I'm not a big fan because it looked like a spam, so you can use it. Not a problem at all.

You just use a file here, right? Whichever we, you can just give it any you know notebook here, like IPYNB, and that's it, right? And then just say video and convert, so we're converting and then just view here, right? So you can see this is converted. But again, I'm not a big fan. You can see what the font is, right? So that's like I said, spam as well as not great, right? So you just follow that. I think it's good to follow approach, which I follow, which I give it to you, right? That will be more interesting. Okay, perfect. Okay, let's going back now for the low code version people. I just want to make sure they also have the presentation visibility, like what they have to do. Some of the FAQs are there. Maybe the FAQs also. Then I come to the presentation. Better database taking more than expected. How to handle it? You know you can lower the chunk size that will reduce the memory. Okay, if you lower the chunk overlap, that reduce the number of chunks. So ideally, again, like I said, if you are working on a Google Collab, should not be an issue. But in case it fits, then you can chunk. You can reduce the chunk size. And how can you reduce the chunk size? You can reduce the number. You can increase the the you know like lowering the chunk size. Now I have to understand in terms of frequency or in terms of the number of words that you can take a call right. Like if you have a lower chunks, like less number of tokens in there, that will have more chunks for sure, but then the memory needed would be less. Okay, on the contrary, if you have 512 tokens, and of course you will have lower chunks, but more, but bigger chunks, like lower number of chunks, but bigger chunk size in terms of tokens. Okay, so I still say again, depends. Should not have an issue in this, ideally speaking, because we only have one document, right? But in a day-to-day, like in a production level setups, we mostly follow these 256, 512 token count. Okay, so if you have any issues, you can reduce it to 128 or 64 tokens if that helps. Okay, but ideally, I don't think there should be an issue, right? 99.99% of the cases. If you are using colab, should not be a problem. Okay, I am getting the following error. How do I resolve it? So if you are using like let's say Llama model, right? Like the Llama Cubis, you can see here, right? You are not using OpenAI, but you are using some sort of Llama CPP Python, which I still say don't use. Okay, but if you in any Hugging Face model, I'll say don't install the Llama CPP, right? Okay, like here it says it's only a GPU issue, but I'll be honest, like installing Llama on Google Colab is not a is not a straightforward process. Okay, so what I'll suggest is you can download these models like Llama CP, Llama model, Llama LM from Hugging Face via API key, and then you can use it. Or you can, if you remember, we talked about this in the last session, right? You will have a Hugging Face API key which will allow you to download models. Okay, I hope you remember it. The notebook which I shared with you. Let me go back again real quick here. I can show you right what I'm talking about. I shared this folder with you last week, week one. Okay, so we're talking about this pront engineering. If you remember, right? Let me quickly open this up. Here, you know, you have to pass an API key, right? I think this is not the best example. Rag base example. I think this LM prompt, right? This is the one, right? So if you go down here, so this is what I'm talking about. You can have a Hugging Face token. Okay, you can go to Hugging Face register yourself, and this is what you can use, right? So this is what I'm doing. I'm downloading the model, the LM model. Okay, so I still say don't get lost in the installation part. Don't install the Llama model on your notebook. Okay, because problem, like because you know it requires complex C libraries.

It has lot of unknown dependencies. Okay, and some of the Llama CPP Python model which we are using is very old enough also, so they may not support all the libraries. So the issues are you will definitely feel some get some errors. Okay, like in this example, they are just saying make sure you have t4 GPU, you know, not a dependency complete issue. I'm talking the same issue. Like you can use t4 because L M model needs GPU. They can't turn on CPU, right? It will take forever to complete. So I do agree that yes, you can use t4 GPU. But to be honest, installing Llama on a notebook is not easy, right? As long as you don't have the development steps or developer steps and do you know step by step, step by step guide. So I still say the the best bet is just go to Hugging Face, create a token, and download a model for you. So you can use Falcon 7B. You can also use. I think I have used Llama also here. Let me see quickly. I think I have used it. Just give me a sec. Yeah, here you can. I can see I've used Llama 3.1. So this will also be accessible to you, right? You can use this. It's easy to download. It's easy to work around with this with this approach rather than installing Lama CPP on notebook. Okay. So just a advice again. You can install. I'm not saying if you can do it, great. But you will necessary, unnecessarily lose time on the installation. Okay, and the best just stick to OpenAI. I'll be honest to you, GPT 4o Mini. That's the best model you can do a hand check with the with the API endpoint, and that should be the easy way to handle all the complex scenarios. Okay, perfect. So I think that's pretty much it. Now what I'll do is lastly. I know I'm taking hijacking the time. Last approach is here, right? The presentation for the low code folks. I quickly go through it. I quickly let you eyeball through all this, right? I can't share this report also because this is your solution, but definitely I could write. This session is recorded, so you can definitely you know do some content crunching, right at the end. So it is right. These are all the content summary, the business problem, how you are doing question answering with LM, with LM, prompt engineering with RAG, right? And the recommendations which we have seen. So here's the executive summary, right? Like summarize summarization of whatever you have achieved, Right, contextual relevance. How can you update the knowledge base? This is again some information. How you can optimize the embeddings, right? Scalability and all. This is a problem overview. Okay, so just copy paste that specific problem from your notebook. Like what was the overall ask? Right, information overload, manual review slowed slows it down, right? Not scalable. You can even point create the points if that helps, right? That no one wants to read the theory, right? Everyone wants to read. Everyone enjoys reading bullets, right? That would be easy. Then this is a solution approach. It's knowledge based preparation. You take this PDF, create the chunks right created on a rag based system you have used which embedding you have used right you have used semantic vector chroma vector store right or chroma vectordb then baseline QA systems you can tell okay what baseline LM model you have used then you have used a prompt engineering layer right generates responses on business specific formats the prompt you can also attach right. We'll show you in the next slide, and then finally you have applied a rack system. So all five things what you have in the in the project right a retriever editor also. So here you can talk about first LDA model with just baseline right? No prompts, nothing. So here you can just see which model you have used, what parameter value you have kept, right in a tabular format. You can tell about the answers, the questions, and the responses. Okay, what responses you got? You can just copy paste it here. Then the system prompt for the second one, like your NAS assistant, how you assist the business analysis analyst, right? Talking about, you can just put the rag prompt as is here.

Okay, again, this the same thing, same table, same responses captured in a different slide, and then you're going to system prompt. This is your rag. Okay, so you are creating a very heavy system prompt here with all the guidelines and the constraints, right? This again, you can copy paste it, and then again constraints or adherence to the guidelines you can see here, and then pass on the prompt. So we are just the entire prompt design there. Okay, I'll take a pause. Okay, let's see. I see when I use Hugging Face chunk size. I change this OpenAI in five chunks. This embedding model. I use the same problem. Ajay, I'll come onto this. Okay, lot of interesting facts are coming up. I'll come onto this. Let me complete this one and then I'll take all your questions. Okay, on the rack side again, same thing. What model have you used? What embeddings have we have all the tabular presentation which authors questions and the answers, and this is the appendix right. So let's say if you have to have all the questions, the responses here, you can copy paste it up, right? What question responses you got? Okay, specific examples here: visionary emphasis, what elements you got? Again, all the three variations and all the three questions and responses in detail, right? If someone wants to see here, that's why. Like this is all just making sure that it's all very conclusive in nature, right? So think of like if a business wants to see your findings, what they will do. So instead of using the code, it's good to paste the outputs, right? And of course, a table, what format of what hyperparameters, what prompts you have used, right? So this becomes more more knowledgeable. Okay, yeah. Now, so thanks again. If you have any questions now, now I'll take all your questions. Follow up. Okay, so let's start from scratch. Where do we get OPP key config file? I shared this earlier. You should be on your Olympus dashboard, right? I think if you go to your dashboard, there is. Although again, I'm a mentor, so mine would be very different from yours, but it should be there in your, you know, config file should be somewhere here. That's what I was told again. Okay, if you don't find it, it's great. Not a problem. I can put it on the shared drive, but I think as a program manager or who's not sure, they can definitely help you out there, right? But this should be available in your lumpus dashboard, and someone else, if they have used it, they can guide him here as well. Because my dashboard will be way different, right?

Yeah, just click on the profile. You can in the down axill you can able to see the the keys.

Okay, sorry. Go again. My bad.

After login, click on your profile. Okay,

profile.

Great. Yeah,

like I said,

I'm a mentor, right? So I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't blame.

Yeah, if you come down, actually, you'll get both open eye and base keys. No

worries. I don't see it, but again, like I said, I'm a mentor, right? So no problem. Like I said, you definitely get in touch with the program management office, but I don't. I want you to. You're not stuck. I want to make sure that you're not stuck, right? So I've shared this link with you, right? The week one. What I will do is this already. I have shared with you guys. Again, let me copy paste it once I shared with you, right? So here you can go, and here you can see a config.json. Okay, so this is where you can see the API key.

Okay, sounds good. No

worries. But again, make sure you ask this question to your program manager also, like why you don't have the access, right? If in case if there's any issues, a problem. Okay, perfect. Now let's go back. Let's see what you guys are talking about. Some interesting things are coming up. Let's go here first. Let me. I don't want to take want to prioritize anyone, so I'll take these questions. I see it's recommended. I think we'll try to explain this to you right again. I have a closer visibility on this, but like I said earlier, point four to point seven in terms of your temperature, right? And the top P we always take point five to point eight because you want the closer terms to be or the most popular terms to be in the response. I already talked about this statement as well. Let me know if you don't if you if you don't if I don't agree with the question. Sorry, with the response. I use the default prompt. Did not provide answers. The default prompt will not provide answers. We saw that Virgil, right? Let me know if I'm missing out something. If we go back to a solution, I hope all this, right? We have gone to the first because the first response will not have a answer because it doesn't know which I'm talking about. Okay, I hope I understand. I hope I answer your question right.

Who, my Virgil's? Talking Virgil's question or somebody else's?

Again, my bad.

Were were you talking? I had put in a question, but I don't know if you're answering mine or somebody else's.

No, no, I'm answering yours all only.

Oh, yeah. No, I did everything default. I just copy and paste the prompts that were in the problem already, and I ran it. I ran it with the K value of three, and I didn't set a temperature, but when I ran that default prompt that comes with the problem. I didn't get a author listing. I just got everything else but the author. And then when I I put in one more phrase that made it specific to show the authors, then it on that second prompt that I modified from the default. Then it pulled up the authors, but by the default prompt, I did not get the authors. It did not go to that particular chunk on page one. Because everything else that got pulled was from page one of the PDF. What they were the same page of the PDF, but the when I did it specific, it pulled in the chunk. I had the author, but on the default question, it did not pull in that chunk.

Okay, and you are talking this with respect to rag, right?

Yes, sir. The rag. Yeah.

Okay. Okay. Okay. Let me do this. Like I mean, I that case again because that's interesting. I'm still trying to understand.

Yeah, the the thing that I picked up from you was I need to make sure I I guess I better intentionally define I guess as a default temperature because I didn't define the temperature. I think I need to intentionally. I did pick up on your on your two two values for your your top end. I now I don't know. Does top end is that equivalent to the K the use top three? So I'm thinking that's top N, right? What you call top N. So you are talking about the

top retrieve chunks, right? Yeah, sir. Top K, top K, top K. Okay. So yeah, I use three or five. Sorry, or two. I use

three. I use three, three chunks. Okay. And then I did not define a temperature that. So if it if it defaults to to to a temperature that's less creative than the one you used, that may have had something to do with why you pulled in.

I still say like temporary because I'm I'm hoping you use the same function. That's what I hope we are talking about apple to pumping apple. No,

we are. I I I used everything default on on the on the problem set. I wasn't. This is my first time doing this, so I'm not gonna. I'm not my my my my temperature setting is at zero, so okay for me in my brain. I'm I'm not doing too much creative right now. I'm just skipping.

So yeah, I mean, yeah, Shiva, go ahead. I mean, I just want go ahead, please. Yeah, sorry.

I had a similar challenge as well. Even if you know just by default, we are talking about the third iteration with the rag. First question said no authors found. Okay. Changing the you know well, I just responded like K to five.

Top K.

It worked. Second, I was playing around, and then I copy pasted the previous week, so it confused. But when I, after a little debugging into that, I realized I well enhanced the system prompt, and it shifted. So these were the changes actually caused either authors no authors found error. If somebody is getting a similar error, fine tune these two. Okay.

Got it. Okay. So yeah, like this Q and A system is talking about this prompt, and I just no offense. It's just like I'm trying to see if I can reproduce that result, right? So I am making a change here, but maybe if we have a strong prompt like let's say this one, right, which we created QNS system message, maybe this will help to you know fill that gap. But there's no harm in running it once again. Let's see what happens. Right, I'm just making changes. Top K is two only. I'm overriding this and saying temperature as zero right now. Let's see what happens. I'm just trying to reproduce again. Like I said, maybe it's not going to give me the same output, but that's okay. There's no harm in. Yeah, you guys are spot on. Now you can see. So now what is happening here? Even we have a strong, you know, prompt. Even then, we're not getting it. Now you get the point because the top K is not able to pull the relevant article. So that where you have the authors, I'm pretty much so it's it's not being put. So that's now if you increase from two to three, let's see if that happens. Right, I'm pretty much so that's a culprit. Like the top retrieved chunk itself is not sufficient here.

Sure, yeah, same thing

again. Yeah, same thing again. Even with three. Now that's a good one. That's a good call out, right? Let's see with five that happens or not. So what is happening now? Predicus, get the point. So the top three chunks which you got, the top three from retrieve doesn't have any author name, okay? But the fourth and the fifth chunk, what we got, that has author name. So now it, I know consulted those five sponsors and finally got the author. So that I totally agree. So this this is a now this is a classic example where the prompts are fine, but the problem is with your top K. Right? Yeah, makes sense.

Yeah, thank you. That was a learning moment. Yeah, no, no, that's

fine. Totally agree. So 90% of the times when you're not able to pull the retrieve the context, the context from the knowledge by itself, that's where the answer can't can't be any. If you don't have the answer right from the knowledge by itself, we can't do much. So I totally agree with you. So that's a learning for us as well. Now going back, systemated problems, not custom related, but I'll say some design-based problem, right? So maybe, maybe again, that's what my best bet is. Since this document, maybe check this up, but I don't have the time right now. But I'll set this for you guys. We have a chunk size of 512 tokens, I think, which which we made, right? Let's see the chunk size. Maybe that accidentally is happening. Maybe we are having a bigger chunk size. Did anyone see the same issue if it tries to feed it with 256 tokens? Just making. I'm just trying to see if you know if that can help. Maybe we have a bigger chunk.

It worked. It worked. No issues. It's a case with

at least okay, perfect. I still say give it a try because my understanding is it should be smaller chunks. Then, but again, that's my best bet, right? Ideally, at the point, it revis is suffering, right, at the end of day. So maybe we had retrieved those chunks, or latties. We can have a look, but I totally got your point, right? There's something wrong on the on the right. I'll say the three side of things, right? Like maybe the chunk. Yeah,

I did 256. Okay, I'm still the

same problem, right? Okay, okay, okay, that's a good problem. I mean, 250

6k 10. I tried all the way till K 10, but only difference is that I changed from Hugging Face to Open API, and that syncing size did not matter.

Okay,

so

you are saying that OpenAI did did give the output against Hugging Face or something? Sorry.

Yeah, OpenAI did the output, but Hugging Face Did not

did not okay interesting that's that's a good one okay okay great so that's also interesting I mean I I would love to do a deep dive on this but again don't have time but yeah let's see that's a good one the LM is not able to spawn even itself that's interesting okay Yashiva go ahead please let me take all the Yeah, go ahead, please.

When there was an error, the first question, right, in Iraq, when it didn't result before,

then

yeah,

MMR instead of the similarity search, right? MMR. Well, it seems to be working better than similarity simple search. Well, like I've not spent enough time on MMR.

Similarity algorithm we're talking about, right? Similarity, whether it can be like it can it can have a default, have a separate similarity matrix. That's what you're talking about, right? Yeah,

maximal like retrieval. So that's some. worked, but again, a couple of options that to try and explore. I think I will just share this.

No, that's a bunch. So I think we have used similarity matrix. I have to double check for Chroma DB. What's the default similarity matrix, right? But I totally agree with you. Like maybe if we can change it to MRR or let's say any any other cosine. I don't think they support cosine similarity. Maybe I have have right because I use threshold

or MMR. Sorry, similarity or MMR or similarity score threshold. These three worked, but again answers are slightly different of each such type. So. so slightly different.

Slightly different, yeah. That's why I prefer using FAISS, right? FAISS, the similarity search. I think by default, so many search is way stronger than chroma, so that can also be one reason. Again, I'll on this. I'm not going to give you any false confirmation, but similar. I mean, different databases can also have a different similarity. You know, mattresses also, so that can also be one reason. But yeah, that's that's a good point. Okay, let's see. Can we resubmit the file? Nancy is asking case if we do want to do some tweaks. Ah, again, like I said, I'm not evaluating. Otherwise, right? You can ask again on the forum. I think once you submit it, if the deadline is not exceeded, maybe you can revoke it. But I'm not the best person again, so maybe the program manager will tell you. In such certain situations, the the learners have gone to the program manager and they say, you know, realize my business is it possible to, you know, can I just rework on this? They have given the as long as the deadline is not exceeded. I think it's today 12 night or 12 night. I mean, 12 night was exact time of submission. So if you are before that, maybe you can rework on it. But but that's what I right. So maybe you can just ask once. You know, I just need to make some tweaks and resubmit it. As long as the deadline is not exceeded, I think you can submit, resubmit it. Okay.

Yeah.

Yeah. Go ahead. Sorry.

Yeah. So for the actually my deadline is already crossed last. So I just because I don't have instructions for the full code how to convert HTML? I tried so more than half an hour. I couldn't convert it, but luckily IP and I have submitted. Here also I have a question about the vector database. Actually, I tried to download. I mean, use the FISS FAS database is that okay? We need to use only Chrome.

I think you can. You're okay to use FISS if they are sharing us like a like in this document I shared DB right? No doubt. I'll still say stick to Chroma DB possible if you have used FAI, so it's okay, not a problem at all. But when they share the guidelines, right? They specifically mention like in this presentation also they mention use Chroma DB, right? Because that's that's a tech stack. To be honest, I don't care because as I release a vector database, right? So from a design constraint point of view, be an issue. But from a tech stack point of view, like they say, you know what? I only prefer ChromaDB. Maybe it's is going to you know backfire a bit because a project like I see that I'll be honest. You like again, we can learn 100 things, but they want it in a specific, you know, like a tech stack or tech suite. So you will say you're not giving a correct answer. That's what you're looking at, right? But realistically, you have used a Chrome, you have used a better database. So from a marketing point of view, I don't think any should be an issue, right? You can say I'm comfortable with FAI SS, right? So you can just give a reason. If I'm comfortable, but because you're using a database, so I don't see any problems, any hiccups there. But if they are very specific about tech suite, I know only ChromaDB. Then in that case, it may encounter like a a very slight you know depreciation. In I don't think they to be honest, the first session, right, or the first project. But as long as you have followed the guidelines, that there's a vector database which needs to be covered, you're you're good enough. Okay.

Yeah. So instructions actually now I totally agree with the mentioned it, but whereas the last time I don't have that much of instructions and I need to just follow myself and just whatever I assume you know I can submit that. Do we do we have

a WhatsApp group? No, no. Sorry, I don't want to interrupt in between. Please go on. But do we have a WhatsApp group? You guys are all collaborated in one. I mean that's what mostly people. Okay, Shiva is saying yes. So I still say use it as a as a good mechanism. You can collaborate. I don't think that you guys don't have to collaborate. What? Yeah.

Somebody added to me the WhatsApp group. Maybe I'll.

I've also got added for some reason. I also don't see any any any division, right? But I'll ask the program manager. Allow me a minute or allow me a day or two. But I promise that that's the best place to be in, right? I dealt with other batches also. So best part is you guys do brainstorming on that WhatsApp group. Okay, you know what? I'm stuck here. Can someone help? And that's the best point of because you learn more, right? You tell them that. Yes, I'll definitely ask. I know the academic forum is also there, the content forum, but that's little slow. You guys, we we are all in the same geography. They are in India. We are in North America, right? So that way, it's very easy to gel up, and and even I can see if you guys are stuck, I can help for sure, right? Like, okay, follow this, or okay, there's there's a link you can go and try it out. Okay, so by all means, both bother me. I'm not going to be aded by it. But yes, there are some initial pains. To be honest, sometimes the turnaround time is loaded. We expect your frustrations also. That's why I'm seeing be active on the WhatsApp group. Okay, so I'll stop here now. Sorry, just Virgil has one more question. Go ahead, Virgil, please. Yeah,

yeah. I was just wanting to confirm the problem statement in my dashboard says this is due on august 3. Is that the accurate date?

Accurate date, third August. What do you guys think? Again, you're asking a very wrong question. You're wrong. I can't have any help from a contextual point of view. It's

right Monday early morning. Monday early

morning. So you have two days. Yeah. So okay. Okay, thank

you very much. I wanted to wait and submit it after I went through this.

I wanted

to make sure I was on I was on track. No, no, you guys can take that.

So for me, it says it's past due on first, but also it says third August, so very

confusing. So as long as you, if it's third them, you can again say send a text saying it's third August, and I want to make some changes. So I think that should not be an issue. I want to you because I may change in the past, as far as I remember, right? So

because I didn't even submit it, you know. No

worries, no worries. That's fine. You have two days, all means. Okay, last question. Ajay, I think you already have answered it. Are you sucking face for embedding in chunk size? Some same around 250. I think 256. What are you referring? See that question? Yeah, turning so now you know interesting. And then I switch to OpenAI with 500 chunk size. Answer is coming. Okay, which chunk size was the issue, or is there any embedding model I used in the problem? No, that's again a good one. So again, we had to slice and dice this. I I think. So what you can do? Okay, in this case, no, that's a good question. So what I mostly do, you know, this code what I showed you here, the knowledge base one, right? Let me go back. This solution, I will share this after Monday. I'm sorry, I can't share it right now, but I can show you the code. Here we are passing the query. Let's go here. Give me a minute. Sorry about this. So we were we were testing actually the wet database. If you remember, right? Like yeah, give me the query when we create knowledge base, right? Give me a sec. Who are the authors with the wet database? We created a database and we charged a query there, right? Right. Just just bear with me. Here, who are the chunks of this? All right. So what I suggest that's again a one very important phase, right? So when we create the better knowledge base, okay, or better database, we always query those. Please query some questions. Like you can ask one question here, okay, and then check. Then we check. We check the chunks, right? If you if you remember, okay. So what I suggest is get top five, okay, and see if the better is okay. Let's say somewhere here the author names are there, right? In top five, we don't care on the first, on the third, or the fourth. That's again a ranking problem. That's a different ball game, but let's say if we get in top five, right? So what I suggest is the better database we want to interpret them. Definitely, it's your model which can't find for chunk for some reason. Okay, so that's what we do. Like when we give the context, and again, but you are seeing at a very high level for now. We will go into the bits and pieces of each, but how I troubleshoot is like when I ask a query, I always see the the top five or top 10 retrieved chunks first, and if that chunk contains the answer and the LM for some reason is not able to get it, then definitely it's a real problem. Okay, but I'll be brutally honest to you. It for OpenAI is not an issue, but yeah, some open source models like Mistral 7b has those issues because it's an open source model, right? So they have a limitation of like how much sun size they can you know support like 1000 open AI. You are paying the price to them, right? You are you are subscribing there. That's why you are giving they are you are seeing better sponsors. So there is some business season also to it. To be honest, some open source models are not designed to handle it. To be honest, 1000 tokens for sure know because it's a cost, right? You know, tokens are cost, right? In days, in today's world. So the best part is that yes, decipher decipher the knowledge base, decipher the LLM. First, see if you are getting responses from knowledge base or not, if you get the response, it is a model which is that's how we foresee. And to to to answer that question, right? We also decide sometimes whether we should go with on DataBricks. So DataBricks have its own custom model DBX, right? So we were doing an evaluation between DBX and Claude, okay, like Claude, which which or which model go for? What we did is we take three models from our suite, we ran the same queries, same 20 queries on all those all those three, and we the responsiveness or the accuracy of all those. So then we decided, you know, we'll go with the cloud entropic model and not with OpenAI because that's how we make our judgment as well.

Okay, so that's pretty much it. Thanks again for all your sweet and you know hard work. Thanks again. I'm getting this warning land chain depreciating. I think you are using a older version than Robin, so that's a problem. As long as it's warning, it's fine. You should get the outputs. That's more important. Just like we're using when we when we're doing pip install, right? We are passing or a land graph version, right? So that's specifically that's why in today's world, when we run on ML model, right, or and let's say notebook, we don't specify the version number, but you have to do it while we're using the codebook. It's maybe little outdated, right? Like three months for four months older. So that's the reason why we had to pass that version number also. But that's warning is not an issue, right? To be honest, fine. No, thanks again, Luke. Like I said, I'm not a part of it. Okay, so I have to enough to ask them to add it to me. They mostly once the mentors and the learners become comfortable, right? Because there are instances where the mentor didn't do well, or the learners didn't understand. So from that perspective, you know they just take time to other groups. Great, Jonathan is saying chunk size 1000 did not have any issue with reading results. Okay, so Jonathan is saying I use chunk size of 1000. Okay, that's great to know that. So I think in you have lesser chunks, but you have a lot of content in there. So maybe that's the reason why it's getting better, right? So that's a good recommendation, also. Yeah. Thank you so much. Nothing else. Okay. I'll publish the solution on a share drive. Okay. Starting on Monday morning. That's what you said, I think. So Monday or Tuesday. I hope the WhatsApp group. I forget. I am a very forgetful person. Okay, a forgetting person. I forget a lot of things because I have a big family, and again, no no grudges. But I've been occupied right throughout. So if you feel like I'm missing something, I'm not shy of listening anything. You can critic and say, since you forgot this, I do it right away. Okay, so you just have to remind me sometimes. Bye. Yeah, thank you so much, guys. If nothing else, enjoy your rest of the week. Yeah, let's catch you later next week. Take care for now. Bye for now.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
