To be able to use an LLM, we have to prompt that LLM. The prompt is an input block of text that we feed to the LLM with the hope of getting some sort of output. So, for example, we might just type into our favorite LLM, "How much wood could A? Now, if you're from America or you are a fan of tongue twisters, you might have heard the tongue twister: How much wood could a woodchuck chuck if a wood if a woodchuck could chuck wood? You see, it's a tongue twister. I already screwed it up. And so, if you just prompt, how much wood could A? The output from the LLM might be could a woodchuck chuck if a woodchuck could chuck wood, right? So this is the prompt. It's the input text that we're using to elicit an output from the LLM. Another type of prompt might be how many meters are in a mile. We would expect a good LLM to be able to answer either of these questions, to be able to give good output to both of these prompts. So an LLM is not just designed to answer questions; it's designed to complete things too, right? So here's a task that it can complete. How much would could a prompt? That's the prompt. Now the output is the rest of the tongue twister, or it could be a question, or it could be an instruction like, "Hey GPT, translate this block of text from English to Spanish. So a prompt is the thing that the user puts into the LLM to elicit an output. Now sometimes we want those outputs to be high quality, so we're going to talk a little bit about how we get those outputs. Now if you remember the way LLMs are trained as they're repeatedly predicting the probability of the next word, right? And that's the same thing that they do when they generate outputs. They repeatedly predict the probability of the next word, take a few of the high probability next words, randomly choose one of those next words, and do this process over and over and over and over again until finally the LLM predicts the next word is EOS. Remember, EOS stands for end of sequence, and that's you know the LLM's key. Hey, that's I should stop generating text now because the most likely next block of text is to not generate a next block of text. So the LLM is just going to repeatedly, repeatedly, repeatedly predict the next word, and that's going to be the output from our prompt. So some prompts are going to get better responses than others, and why is that? Well, the answer goes back to our training data. If you recall, our training data is just data that's out there on the internet, text that people have written on the internet, and so if your prompt is more like some text that is shown up on the internet, then it's more likely to get a response that seems like it was written by a human. So we might want to figure out how we can design our prompts that will make better outputs, and we do this with something called prompt engineering. So, can we write a prompt that is more likely to get a good response? Yes. If we can write a prompt that is more like the text our LLM has seen before, then we're more likely to get a good response. So, we call this prompt engineering. But can we always guarantee a perfect answer by engineering a prompt. Unfortunately, the answer to that question is no. Sometimes we're going to ask an LLM to do things that it just can't do. There's going to be some things that it's never seen before, and so it's just not going to do a very good job at some specific tasks. So we can try to do better by doing some prompt engineering, but we are not guaranteed to do perfectly. So, what can we expect from prompt engineering? So, one thing that we can expect is to control the model behavior. We might be able to, you know, elicit some things but not others. So, for example, we can say things like, "And please write this professionally because I'm going to give it to my boss. If we write things like that in our prompt, we're more likely to get professional output, right?

So because people write posts on the internet, hey, can you help me rewrite this cover letter? And people have rewritten those cover letters helpfully, more professionally, and people have asked similarly phrased questions. Hey, internet community, can you help me do this? Because I'm going to give it to my boss, and then people helped nicely. And so, if we can generate our prompts that you know are more like what we want for our output, then we can potentially control the behavior of the output from the model. We can also get constrained outputs. So if you recall our hands-on session a few videos ago, when we worked with that movie review data for from Flan T5, and we said, "Hey, Flan T5, output just. A one or a zero. If this is a high sentiment block of text, input a one, output a one. If it's a low sentiment block of text, output just a zero. And so we can hope that the LLM will listen and behave, but sometimes it doesn't. If you, as you recall, I mentioned in that video that sometimes Flan T5 output not just a one or a zero, but an output one because the sentiment was high, or zero because the sentiment is low. Instead of just a one or a zero, it explained why it was outputting a one or a zero, which we do not want. So we can sometimes get constrained output, but not always. Sometimes we can get higher quality output. So there have been some interesting posts online where, like, if you ask your LLM with pleases and thank yous, or say things like "this matters for my job" or whatever, you're more likely to get high quality output. And the reason for that is just that that's in the training data. When people ask nicely on the internet, they're more likely to get high-quality answers. If people say things on the internet like "this is important for my job, the output of the quality is just maybe going to be a little bit higher. There are all these little tips and trick sheets you can find out there about how can you make your prompt so that you get the highest quality output possible, and a lot of that is just based on understanding what's in the training data and what leads to occurrences of high-quality responses in the training data, we can also use prompts to automate some operations. So we might say, "Hey GPT, can you clean this data set so that I can use it for fine tuning, for example, or hey GPT, can you write a script for me to fine tune you? So this is a nice behavior that we can get. So we don't have to be a good programmer necessarily. You need to be good, but not great, to be able to fine tune a model like Llama 2, for example. We can say Hey Llama 2, will you please write some Python script that will fine tune Llama 2 for me, and then it'll output that text for us. It'll output that Python code, and then we can run that Python code, and then we'll get a better Llama 2 model. And then that means that later on, when we ask more questions that are similar to that training data we asked Llama two to train itself on, we'll get more answers that are higher quality. Now there are some limitations to prompt engineering. Specifically, some of these models are pretty highly sensitive. So if you ask a question like, "What color is it outside, and what color is it outdoors? You might get very different answers. Outside might be you get generic answers, and outdoors is sometimes more related with like people going hiking and camping and adventuring, and so you might get answers that sound like people writing about adventuring and camping, when you say what color is it outdoors, and you might get another answer of generic stuff when you say what color is it outside. But you and I know outdoors and outside mean the same thing. But because the way these things are trained, outdoors tends to be used in some set of data, and outside use tends to be used in another set of data. So two prompts that you and I think are very very similar might get drastically different answers. Same thing.

We have some issues with common sense. So sometimes the computer might not know what you're talking about. So I'll give you an example that's not immediately clear. So for example, if I say to a LLM how high is the color green, the LLM might not have the slightest idea what I'm talking about. But if you were to ask a physicist that question, they might interpret that as well. What frequency on the spectrum is the color green on the light spectrum? You know, high colors might be ultraviolet like purple, and low colors might be ultra infrared like red. So you know, how high is green is how high how many hertz is above red is green, or something like that. But a LLM might not have the slightest idea what you're talking about. Now, of course, it's sort of a silly example, but you know sometimes LLMs just don't know what you're talking about, and this is particularly important when we're using code to generate our prompts for us. So a lot of these LLMs are based on APIs, so for example, if you're going to use Llama 2 or Flan T5, you have to use it programmatically. There's not a nice fancy web page like Chat GPT out there for Llama 2. Well, there are, but none of them are very good. So if you're going to use Llama 2 a lot, you're going to have to use it by writing some Python code. And so you might then say, well, I'm going if I'm already using Llama 2 by writing some Python code, I might write some Python code that has a bunch of loops and generates a bunch of prompts and gets a bunch of responses, and it might be automated in some way. And so now, if we use code to automate our Llama 2 response, well, sometimes those responses we get might be illogical just because you know the scenarios we ask Llama two about might not make a whole lot of common sense because we used Python to generate those prompts. Also, exception handling is going to be important. So these models are incredibly complicated. If you recall, I mentioned that GPT three, for example, had 175 billion parameters in it. That's a lot of parameters. So understanding what's going on in any of these models is really tricky. So if we go back to that example before of where I said, what you know, what's it like outside versus what's it like outdoors, and we get two very different answers. We might not know that that it's because maybe that outdoors tends to be used from by people that are you know going camping, and outside tends to be used by people that are playing outside with their kids, right? So if we don't know you know the context of why these two words are used differently. We might not understand why we're getting very strange outputs sometimes. So if I ask GPT, "What's it like outside? and instead of telling me that the temperature is 74 degrees and it's sunny, it tells me that you know the clouds are moving in over the mountains, and I don't live anywhere near the mountains. We might be a little bit confused about that. So exception handling is something that's a little bit tricky to deal with when we don't understand why we get some confusing output. Also, debugging is an issue. We don't know what's going on with these things. So if we get some weird output, and it's something that's like repeating, repeating itself, repeating itself, repeating itself. When we don't know what's happening, it's going to take a lot of work to figure out what's causing these problems. Sometimes, so prompt engineering has its limitations. We have to be very careful about using this in an automated fashion. So, if we are going to use some Python code to generate lots of prompts and lots of outputs from our Llama 2 model or whatever, we're going to have to be very careful when we do that. One of the things we really want to be careful about is that we don't want to create a feedback loop.

So, for example, if you, for example, are making lots of generated text and publishing it on Reddit, for example, and then Llama Two comes around and trains based on your Reddit post, and your Reddit post was generated by Llama Two. That's going to create some sort of feedback effect that's going to be bad in the long run. So we're already seeing this in some of these models where they're confidently outputting gibberish because they're being trained on generated text, which was trained on generated text, which was trained by generated text, which was trained on generated text. So this sort of creates what's called a feedback loop, where eventually you'll get you know small errors that build up and build up and build up and build up, and pretty soon you get models that are just completely useless. So we want to be careful that we don't just you know create these feedback loops, and this can happen if we have bad prompts, for example. So we need to be really careful when we design our prompts, specifically if we're going to use the output later to train another large language model. With that, though, let's talk about a few specific things we can do with prompt engineering. So there are a few generic types of prompts that we can give to a large language model. One type is something called a template prompt. So a template prompt would be something like input a block of text that would be something like translate this sentence from English to Spanish colon my name is Dan, and then we would hope that the output from our favorite LLM is Mayamo Dan. This is a type of template where we have a very specific request, and give it a block of text that it should be using based on that template, and then the output should be the response from that template. Another type of prompt is called called a fill in the blank prompt. So, for example, we could type into our favorite LLM the first person to walk on the moon was, I think it was Buzz Aldrin, but I'm not sure. So, hopefully, the model returns Buzz or something like that. Whoever the first person to walk on the moon was, I can't remember that off the top of my head. I should have looked that up before I recorded this video, so we can give it a underscore underscore underscore. We can just give it a end of sentence. You know, just a nothing. But hopefully the model uses this type of fill in the blank prompt to answer this question. So instead of specifically asking who was the. First person to walk on the moon, we could ask it something like this. Instead of saying who was, we can write it as a sentence to be completed, because there's a lot more sentences that are complete on the internet than there are answered questions on the internet. You know, we can only get so far sometimes by asking questions. If sometimes we start to write the answer to the question we're interested in. The answer will just finish itself for you using that LLM. We can also ask multiple choice questions like, who, which of these, which of these three people walked on the moon? Buzz Aldrin, Dan Mitchell, or Kumar Mutharam. Well, hopefully, it it answers. You know, selects the choice Buzz Aldrin. Sometimes we can write instructional prompts. So, for example, we can say, "Hey, favorite, my favorite LLM. Write a neutral tone sales pitch in 300 words for a pair of socks that is going to be sold at my favorite retail location. And then, hopefully, your LLM follows those instructions, and you know, hopefully, it extracts this 300 and knows that the response should be no more than 300 words. Some of the early models could not do things like that. Some of the more recent models can. Some of them are quite spectacular.

What they can do, I saw an example when GPT four first came out that was like write a a 26 word poem about a river flowing through a valley where each word starts with the next letter in the English alphabet so the first word started with A the second word started with B the 26th word started with the Z and it was a poem about a river running through a valley it was a really spectacular thing that you know that GPT four could do. Then GPT three I thought was cool. GPT four really blew my socks off. So we can write these instructional prompts. We can also do iterative prompts, which is where we start with one question, look at the output from our favorite LLM, and then feed our original question the output, and then a new prompt back in to say, "Hey, will you refine this for me? So sometimes when you use one of these online models, and you say, "Like, actually, could you rewrite this to be more tone neutral? Or actually, can you shorten this by five words or something like that? What's really happening is the entire text transcript of what you have done so far is being fed in, and at the end, your newest prompt is also being fed in, and it's predicting the next word. So if you say, you know, write a neutral sales pitch about a pair of socks, and it writes a 600 word sales pitch, you could say you know actually will you tone that will you shorten that to be 300 words, going to then feed in your initial prompt, the output, and then your new prompt, and then it will predict the next word again, and then hopefully this next word is three, this next output is 300 words instead of 600 words. So we do this by iteratively re-prompting and re-prompting using the output along with our prompt. So we take the output and feed it back into our prompt to make a more specific output for the next from the next prompt. We also have to be a little bit careful when we do some prompt engineering that we need to make sure we're ethically aware. So, for example, we want the we may want the LLM to avoid answering some questions, but some of these LLMs don't. So, for example, if you have access to a LLM that was trained without any guardrails, for example, and you put it free on your web page to be used, and someone figures out that they can get it to write disparaging remarks about females or women. That's probably not the best thing in the world for your prompt to be able to do. So you need to make sure that when you do prompt engineering, if it's using you know automated prompts using Python or something like that, you need to make sure that those prompts are ethically aware because some large language models have not been trained to prevent themselves from saying disparaging comments about women. We might want to make sure that our prompts do not encourage our model to say disparaging comments about women. That would be a bad thing. So these are some things we need to be careful about when we do prompt engineering, because sometimes we've let these things out free into the world, and who knows what the random people on the internet are going to do with them, so we have to be pretty careful with that.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
