Now that we have all of our packages installed, we can start loading our dataset. So here, I'm going to use this dataset called AAPL MDA. So what this is is Apple, the company that makes the computers. Every year, with the the fact that they're a public company, they have to submit something called a 10K report. This is an annual report that they submit to the Securities and Exchange Commission to be able to be listed as a publicly traded company in the United States on the stock market. Part of this 10k filing is called the manager's discussion and analysis section. So this is really where the CEO is writing about the status of the company, what's going well, what's going poorly, what are future revenue streams going to look like. Do we need to fire some people, whatever. So you know it's not really the CEO writing; it's the CEO's team, and the CEO reads it and you know signs off on it. And so I have this text file with MDNA sections, manager discussion and analysis sections from lots and lots and lots of years. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to go over here and drag this file that I have, the AAPLMDA.txt, and I'm going to drag this into the filing system here. Now I'm not actually running this as we record the videos because some of the stuff we're going to be doing is pretty slow. So I ran this earlier and just saved the output. So, but when I ran this originally, I took my .txt file and I dragged it and dropped it into this area right here, so that I didn't have to get access to my Google Drive. So now, if I just have that dragged and dropped in here, and the AAPL MDA .txt file shows up there, then that's my home directory, and I can just get access to any file that's there. So this will just be the loader is telling it where I want to load the data, and now I'm actually going to load the data. And so now this essentially becomes a string with all of these mDNA sections from all of these different years. So this is just a text file that has lots and lots and lots and lots and lots of mDNAs from Apple. Now that I have the data loaded, and essentially just think about it as a big long string. Now that the data is loaded, I need to split it up into chunks. You remember why we split these things into chunks? There's two reasons. First reason is a you know a technical reason that we want our each individual chunk size, each individual little bit of text to be about something specific. We don't want to have a big document that's like 30 pages long that talks about everything there is to talk about. We want to have you know kind of like paragraphs that talk about one individual subject. So that's the first reason we want to split the text into small chunks. The second reason is that our embedding model that we will get to here in a few minutes, our embedding model that we're going to actually use takes chunks that are no longer than 512 tokens. So we can only load a chunk of text using our embedding model if that chunk of text is fewer than 512 tokens. So it is important that we make our chunks small enough to be ingested by our embedding model. So here, what we're going to do is going to do a chunk size of 2,000. But Dan, I thought you said it can be no longer than 512 words. Yes, that's right. But if you recall, this is a character text splitter, so it's characters of length 2000. So our text chunks are going to be no more than 2000 letters long, and that includes spaces and punctuation and all the other stuff. We're also going to let our chunks overlap by 200 characters, and the reason we're going to do that is if this chunk ends mid sentence or mid paragraph or something like that, what we might want to do is on the next chunk have the beginning of that sentence or paragraph also in it. So we are going to get a little bit of overlap.

So the end of this chunk is going to be the beginning of this chunk, and that's okay. That kind of just helps us retain context because we're not using a particularly sophisticated text splitter. There are lots of other text splitters that you are free to use. I would encourage you to look at the other text splitters that are in LangChain, but this is the simplest one, and to make sure that we don't get you know like the middle of a sentence separates the two chunks. We're just going to let our chunks overlap by 200 characters. Now this is going to be the function that is doing the chunking, and now we're actually going to split our data. Remember, the data here is that big long string of all those Apple MVNA sections. So now, after we run this, our text chunks, we look at it. We can see the length of it is 715. That means that this data set right here has been separated into 715 chunks of text, each one about 2,000 characters long. So, for example, if we look at the fourth text chunk, we can get it by doing text chunk square bracket and then the index. And remember, this is Python, so we're indexing based on zero. So, 0123, is the fourth text chunk. And if we get the page content, this is the 2000 letters that are the the fourth text chunk and Apple Watch. So you can see here that this is starting in the middle of a sentence. So that's why overlap was important. Services services net sales increased during 2020 compared to 2019, due primarily to higher net sales from the Apple Store advertising and cloud services, Apple Inc. 2020. So this is just around 2,000 letters. So this is text chunk three, which is the fourth text chunk. If we look at text chunk two, which is the third text chunk, we can see that the end of this text chunk should be the beginning of the of the set of this text chunk. So here, the end of this text chunk is down here, and you can see it starts Apple Watch services services net sales increased yada yada yada, and that's the first bit of text right here, so we can see that it does in fact overlap by you know a couple lines. So let's take a look at these text chunks and see how long they actually are. Right, we said that they should be 2000 characters long. Let's see if they actually are. So let's take a look at this 22nd text chunk, or really the 23rd text chunk, and we can see it's 1,992 characters. But I thought it was supposed to be 2,000 characters. What gives? Well, this text splitter isn't completely stupid. You can see here that it starts at the beginning of a word "paid" and it ends at the end of a word iPhone. It starts at the beginning of a word and, so it looks for white spaces or punctuation or new lines or whatever, and it won't stop a chunk in the middle of a word, but it will stop a chunk in the middle of a sentence. So here, this 2000 is the maximum chunk size. Most chunks are going to be a few characters longer because it stops at spaces at the beginning or end of a word. It doesn't stop midword. So that's actually a pretty good thing. So now that we have our text chunked up, we actually now need to build our embedding model. So here we're going to again use this sentence transformers embeddings model. So this again is part of the the LangChain embeddings wrapper for the sentence transformers package, which is the package we installed right here. And I'm going to use a particular model. I'm going to pick the model name of B A A I B G E base E N V 1.5. So where does this come from? I'd like to before I you know move on from this tell you how I chose this model right here. This B A A I B G E base E N V 1.5. So this model was downloaded from Hugging Face, so this B A A I B G E base E N V 1.5 model.

This is a model that's on Hugging Face, and Hugging Face maintain maintains this web page called the MTEB leaderboard. The MTEB leaderboard, which I'll show you here in just a second, is a a a place where if you run if you create an embedding model and you upload that embedding model to Hugging Face, you can then evaluate that model, see how well it does on a set of you know standard data sets, see if it does well at figuring out if two chunks of text are similar or not, and then if you run that, you can report the results to Hugging Face, and they will maintain those results on this thing called the MTEB leaderboard. So here, these are the top embedding models out there. So we can see as of today, when I'm recording this, that the best. Model out there is the Gemini embedding 001. This Gemini you might recognize as the Google Large Language Model, and it says memory right here. This first this column right here is memory usage, and you can see here it says that it's unknown. That's because using the Gemini embedding model, you can't download that model on your own machine, you have to you have to call that using an API. Here, number of parameters unknown. That's because you're not downloading the machine onto your own machine. Embedding dimension. This says remember I mentioned every chunk of text is going to be turned into a vector. This embedding dimension tells you what size that vector is. So Gemini embedding 001 turns a chunk of text, you know, a paragraph or whatever, into a single vector of size 3072. This other column right here is really important. Also, this max tokens, this tells you how long of an input can this model take to be able to embed a chunk of text. So this can take 2048 tokens, which is a good number. This next model is Quinn Embedding 8b. This can take 32,000 tokens. For our purposes, I think 32,000 is a little bit longer than we need because you know we're trying to do paragraphs, not pages and pages and pages because we want each paragraph to be about something specific. Also, this is an embedding size of 4096. This is a 7 billion parameter model, and it takes 28 gigabytes of RAM to run. We can scroll down here. We can scroll down here, and there's lots of them. There's the GTE multilingual base. There's the bilingual embedding. There's the NV embed. There's the BGE M3 custom. This is one model. I think this is made by the same people as that BGE base ENV 1.5 model. Last time I looked, it was in the 40s. Let's see if I can find BGE base env 1.5. Aha! Here BGE large env 1.5. Let's see if I can find BGE base env 1.5. Aha! Here we go. It's the 75th best model out there right now. So when I first wrote this code, it was better than 75, but this leaderboard is being updated, you know, all the time, all the time, all the time. So right now, this is the model we're going to use, the BGE base Env 1.5. If you're interested in building your own rag, I would encourage you to look at other embedding models that are here. So if I click on that BGE base ENV 1.5 model, this takes me to what's called the model card, and this is all of the information about this model. Actually, this model is one of a family of models, so it talks about several of them. So here, this one right here is the one we're talking about. This was released in 2024. It's a model that's been around for a little while, and we can see here that this is the user that uploaded this model. This is, in this instance, the Beijing Academy of Artificial Intelligence, and the model is the BGE base Env 1.5. So any model that you want to use from the Synostransformer model that's on the MTAB leaderboard. You can use, but you just have to reference it by the username slash the name of the model. So we see here that I'm using the username BAAI, Beijing Academy of Artificial Intelligence, and the model I'm going to use is the BGE base ENV 1.5.

So here, because we're doing this on Colab, every time we start a new Colab session, we have to download the model. If you're running this on your own machine and you've downloaded the model before, you don't have to download it again. But since this is Colab, it went through and downloaded this all, and you can see here the biggest file is about 228 megs, so that's the size of this BGE base EMV 1.5 model. Now that we have the embedding model downloaded, we can go through and embed every single chunk of our text with just one line of code. LangChain makes things really easy. So here, with our fais package that we imported, we can use the from documents function and turn this text chunk that we created up here. Remember, these are all of our text chunks that we have 715 of them, and it was created by splitting up our big old document. If we use the faiss package and the from documents function in that package, we give it the text chunks we want to split and the embedding model.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
