Now that we have embedded every single chunk of text, so we have those 715 chunks of text, and we've put each one of them through the embedding model. Now we need to load our large language model. So to do this, we're going to download a model from Hugging Face. Just like for embedding models, we get the models by using the username slash the model name. So for us, for this large language model, we're going to download a model uploaded talking face by a user named the Bloke. My guess is this is a British person. I don't know. I don't know the bloke, but you know, bloke seems like a common thing that British people call each other. So, from this user named the bloke, we're going to download Llama 213 B chat gg uf, and then we're going to get the q5 version of that. So here, this Llama two means it's the second version of Llama that was relate released. 13 B means it uses 13 billion parameters for the large language model. It's a chat model, and I can't remember off the top of my head what GGUF means. It doesn't really matter. What this Q5 means, though, is that this model has 13 billion parameters. It's roughly a gig per billion parameters, and so this seems like it should be a 13 gigabyte model. Colab cannot handle a 13 gigabyte model, but these 13 billion parameters; these are all stored in float 16 or float 32 bits. So that means using either 16 or 32 ones and zeros to represent all of the 13 billion weights and biases in this neural network. Q5 means we don't need 16 or 32 bits to get a good accuracy. Let's just store five of them. So this q5 means the Q stands for quantization. So we will shrink the size of this model just because we aren't storing every single one and zero to represent each of the 13 billion parameters. We're storing a lot fewer ones and zeros. The general rule of thumb is it's better to have a big model that's been quantized than a small model that has not been quantized. If you have those two choices and they both take about the same amount of space, it would be better to get the model that has more parameters with quantization and the model with few fewer parameters without quantization, so this is the location of where we want to get this model, and now we go and use the H the Hugging Face Hub download function to actually download the model. This is a 212 9.23 gigabyte model, so it is relatively big, but it is a lot smaller than this 13B that we thought it might be. Now that I've downloaded the model, I can use this Llama CPP. If you recall, Llama CPP is the the LangChain. package we imported to use the large language model. So now we're going to use this Llama CPP to actually load the model into memory. So here we've just downloaded the model. Now we're going to put it and make it accessible to LangChain. So here we're going to call it LLM, and this will be a Llama CPP model. We're going to tell it where we want. We're going to give it a temperature. If you do, if you've not used temperature, temperature is really just like a measure of unpredictability. So higher temperature means the model will be a little bit more creative. Creative is a strong word for it. It's how much randomness do you want to use in the selection of the next word each time you select the next word. So essentially, a transformer will give you a probability that every single word in the dictionary could potentially be the next word. And so, temperature: the lower the temperature is, the more likely you are to choose the very most likely next word. If temperature is really high, you're going to choose uniformly between a lot of different words. Top P meaning only or the top 5% of possible words would be chosen from the potentially chosen from the dictionary. Verbose meaning true just means print things to the screen. In context, meaning let your language model accept chunks of text that are 4096 characters long. This is not the same as the context here for these text chunks.

These are text chunks that are be going to be used in our Synth Transformers model. This context is our actually large language model, so we need this for sure to be bigger in the context of our sentence transformers model because we're pasting several outputs from our sentence transformers model into our large language model problems. You remember we're going to have that that text that is you know answer the following question using the context below. And here's the question. Here's the context. So this number of context needs to be relatively big. And then all of this is, you know, for training. If you are doing this at home, I think this is a nice way of doing it with Llama CPP. But I personally prefer Olama. So if you decide to use Olama and you've imported the Olama package from LangChain, all you need to do is reference it with Olama and the model name, and we get that model name from that library web page we were looking at earlier. So if I were running this on my own machine, I would use Llama 3.17 dB. You might not be able to use Llama 3.17 dB. You can pick whatever model you want from that library and just put the model name right there. But because we're on Colab, I'm going to be using Llama CPP instead of Olama. Now, once we have the large language model imported, we have the vector store imported. We have the embedding model imported. We have all of the text that we need. We have everything we need. We have to put it all together, and LangChain will let us do that with a single line of code. So here, this agent Colab will build a will build a rag system for us. So here, we're going to use the retrieval QA. If you recall, I told you earlier that retrieval QA is LangChain talk for RAG, and we're going to use from chain type, meaning we want to use a you know a RAG system. So we tell it the LLM we want to use, which is the LLM we just loaded right here. This is our Llama two model. We tell it to be verbose, meaning output some stuff and tell us what's going on. Chain type equals stuff. This is something I completely do not understand. This is one of the other complaints about LangChain is that the documentation can be insufficient sometimes. I don't know what this chain type equals stuff means, but I do know that I need it. I've looked at enough examples to know that I have to say chain type equals stuff, but I've looked up enough documentations to know that I don't understand what it means. That's okay. Here I'm going to use the retriever, meaning where do I go grab the information from? Where do I go grab the context? So I'm going to grab it from the vector store. That vector store though needs to is just really just you know a database. So we need to treat that database as something that can be searched. So we're going to use the as retriever and this search quargs quargs is short for is an acronym for keyword arguments. So the kw is keyword args as arguments, and here k equals two or k colon two. This is a dictionary, right? This says when I search my 715 chunks of text, return the top two hits. When I have a query about you know my AAPL MDNA sections, search all of those 715 chunks of text, calculate those cosine similarities between my query and each of the 715 chunks of text, and return the top two of them. As I've mentioned, this is the easiest way to do search. There's lots of other ways you can do search too. I would encourage you to read more about other types of search cutoffs yourself. And now again, I have to tell Lang Chain to be verbose because I want to print some stuff to the screen. And so now this agent Colab, this is my rag system. I can use this agent collab to ask questions. So let's write a question. So here, the question I want to ask is: How often does the company review inventory, and what is considered in this inventory calculation? Now, I didn't just come up with this question out of thin air.

What I did was I took that a that aap lmdna.txt file, and I randomly scrolled somewhere into the middle of it, and I found some text. I read that text, and I formulated a question about it. Here in green is the text that I read. The company performs a detailed review of inventory each fiscal quarter that considers multiple factors, including demand forecast, product. Lifestyle status, product development plans, current sales levels, and component trends. So this is a chunk of text that I took out of the Apple MDNA document, and I developed a question around that. So this is a good test to see if our RAG system is doing a good job or not. So here I use my my rag agent, my agent.my agent collab, and I run my query on my rag system, and it saves that to my output. Now this is going to take a while if you're on collab. This is the slowest part of this. When I ran this on my collab, it took a minute or two, because I had a lot of credits. If you don't have very many credits, it might take you know 20 minutes is the longest I've ever seen it take. This one line of code can be pretty slow. That's why I ran this before I recorded this video. So here, when I was telling it to be verbose, that's what got printed to the screen here because I told it to be verbose, and the reason I did that was because I wanted to sprit to print this green text. This green text is what actually gets plugged into the large language model. So here it says, use the following pieces of context to answer the question at the end. If you don't know the answer, just say you don't know. Don't try to make up an answer. Have to adjust its allowance for doubt for doubtful accounts, which would affect earnings and periods adjustment statement, inventory valuation, and inventory purchase commitment. The company must order components for its products and build inventory in advance of products. Simple as the company re records write down for inventories and components, including third party products, yada yada yada. So this chunk of text right here is the chunk of text that the BGE base Env 1.5 model thought was the most relevant chunk of text to my question right here, which is how often does the company review inventory, and what is considered in this inventory calculation? This line of text right here, this is the second most relevant chunk of text according to BGE base ENV 1.5, and now it says question how often does the company review inventory, and what is considered in the inventory calculation? Helpful answer: Now, as we know, LLMs are just next word predictors, so it's going to predict the next word, predict the next word, predict the next word, predict the next word. So here, this is sort of like that black text that we had on the slide that said, "Answer the following question using the context below. Question: Where is Dan from? Context colon Dan grew up in Houston. Dan lives in Austin now. Dan is a professor at UT. Whatever, right? So this is very similar to that. It's just this is the way that Lang Chain decided to write it instead. This is how they decided to make their prompt. I don't know if it's possible to change this prompt, but you know it's a pretty good prompt. It works pretty well. And so now, once the prompt has been written, all of this green text is fed into my Llama two model, and Llama two predicts a word, predicts a word, predicts a word, predicts a word, and this is the words it predicted. The company reviews inventory quarterly. It considers multiple factors such as demand forecast, product lifecycle status, product development plans, current sales level, and component cost trends. Hey, look, that's pretty much verbatim, what we what this chunk of text was that said you know what they consider when they're doing inventory, and it also told us that it does inventory quarterly, which is exactly what the real data told us here. It does every fiscal quarter, so this rag system did a pretty good job at answering this question.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
