Hello and welcome back. In the previous sessions, we talked about how large language models work and how we can use large language models, and in this session, we're going to actually use a large language model on a Jupyter notebook. So let's get to it. So before we do this, I want to tell you all that I'm doing this on a Google Colab session, and the reason I'm doing this on a Google Colab session is because specifically I'm going to be using a very big, large language model that actually Google Colab can run. But it's going to be important that we run this on a GPU. So if you go up here to your your runtime button. You can go click to change our runtime and just make sure that a GPU is selected here. If you if you pay for Colab Pro and you have access to an A100, I would highly recommend you use that if you can. But whatever you do, do not use a CPU. CPU will make this incredibly slow, and it might not even work, but you can use a T4 GPU on Google on Google Colab. So if you can, go ahead and use one of these. So to get started, what we need to do is install a few packages. So here we're actually going to have to use CMake to build a library for us to use, and then we're going to pip install. And this thing that we're going to pip install is called Llama CPP Python, and this is because we're going to use the Llama two model, and we need to install Llama CPP Python because we need to give our Llama two model access to C plus plus. Cpp is short for C+ because we're going to be using a quantized model, and we can only get access to quantized models if we use a CPPed model. And I'll tell you what a quantized model is here in just a second. And then we're going to force reinstall and upgrade, and then make sure we aren't grabbing something from the cache. So now after we install Llama CPP, we're going to import the Hugging Face Hub, and we're going to import the Llama CPP, but we're going to import it as Llama, and then we're going to go and tell Python what model we want to use. So the first thing we're going to do is tell Llama that we're going to get the name of the model from the bloke Llama two 313 B chat G G U F F. Now, if you remember when we talked about the Hugging Face Hub, the first thing in a directory is the user who uploaded the model. So this model was uploaded by someone named the Bloke. The Bloke is a relatively proficient, prolific, I guess, prolific person on Hugging Face. So this person named the Bloke has uploaded a lot of models. This is his username. It's not his real name, I would imagine. I don't even know if it's a he. This person, the Bloke, has uploaded a lot of models to the Hugging Face Hub, and this is a Llama 2 13B model. So Llama 2 comes in three main varieties: a 7b, a 13b, and a 70b, and that stands for 7 billion, 13 billion, and 70 billion, and that's how many parameters there are. So we're going to get the 13 billion parameter model. The 70 billion parameter model is a stronger model. It's a better model, but it's just harder to load. It's a bigger model. It's you know an order. It's maybe not a whole order magnum. It's a lot bigger of a model than the 13 billion model. And also we're going to get the chat one. So there's a few models. There's the the Llama two instruct and Llama two chat. There's a few different versions of Llama two, so we're gonna get the chat one that's good at kind of conversing. And then inside of that, the actual model we're going to download is Llama 213 B chat q5. q5 stands for quantization five bit. So when we have to train a large language model, there are all these weights and biases. Each of these weights and biases is a number stored on a computer, right?

Most numbers that are stored on computers are stored as either 16 bit, 32 bit, or 64 bit numbers. What we're going to do is take all of those numbers. Then I don't know exactly how big the original llama model is. I think it might have been 32-bit. I'm not positive. Don't quote me on that. Meaning all of those 13 billion numbers were originally stored using something like 16 bits or ones and zeros to represent each number. What we can actually do is round those numbers instead of using all 16 of those ones and zeros to store the numbers. Let's just use five of those ones and zeros to store all of these numbers. So here, this is a five-bit quantization. So we're going to essentially forget about nine. Of the ones and zeros, and the numbers I say nine, I meant 1111. of the ones and zeros that represent the numbers and those weights and biases in this Llama two model. And it turns out that even with relatively imprecise numbers, with these five bit quantization, we can we can actually get pretty good models. So then we're going to tell the Hugging Face Hub to go ahead and download this model. So we're downloading this model. You can see that this model was 9.23 gigabytes. This is a big model, and this whole model has to be loaded into RAM for the model to be useful. So this whole model is loaded onto the Google GPU that we're going to use, and then we're going to create a Llama CPP model that takes the model that we just downloaded. We're going to say that we want to use only two CPU cores. We want to use 512 numbers, 512 batches. Whenever we do any sort of batching of the data, we also want to use 43 GPU layers, and the number of context is 496. So 4096. We want our context window to be 4096 tokens long, and then we're going to build this model, and then with this model, we can write a function that generates a response. So here, this function generate LlamaResponse takes a block of text as input, and then it will output the response from Llama two. Now, some of these large language models have a few things that are important. Some of them require something called a system message. That means some of these models are just trained to do a little bit better if you add particular blocks of text at the beginning or end. So, for example, Llama two is trained to do better if you attach this block of text to the end of all of your prompts, that's just how Llama 2 was trained. So we should do that when we prompt Llama 2. So here we're going to put together the user prompt and the system message inside of this function, and then we're going to feed this entire user prompt plus the system message to Llama Two. We're going to give it the prompt. We want to make sure that it generates no more than 1024 tokens, just because that's what I felt like. Here we're going to set the temperature. I'll explain what this is in a minute. We're going to set the top p. I'll explain what all these things are here in just a minute. And then, because llama two sometimes generates multiple answers or multiple responses, we're going to grab the zeroth response, so the zeroth choice, and then output the text of that response, and then we're going to return just that response text. So here, these parameters that we had to give to this Llama model, I'm going to go through and explain some of these. Here, I have some explanation of what these are. So, max tokens, for example, this is a parameter that max that specifies the maximum number of tokens the model should generate. So, how many tokens should be in the output? For us, no more than 1024. Temperature is sort of an interesting model parameter. It's between zero and one, and it controls the randomness of the generated response. If you remember, I told you that when large language models predict the probability of the next word, usually what they do is they grab a few of the top most likely responses and then randomly choose between them.

The temperature says how likely is it to pick the most likely next word versus randomly choosing some word from somewhere down below on the list. So this controls the randomness of the generated response. A higher temperature means that you'll get more random responses, meaning that you're more likely to pick a token at random from the top few most likely next tokens. Top P is one way that we can stop our list of most likely next tokens. So if we want to, so take a list of the most likely next tokens, and then pick one of those at random. What top p does is says, well, let's add up all of those cumulative probabilities of the next most likely next tokens, and if that probability gets above top three, okay, now we stop considering random tokens to choose from. So top p is a way that we can cut off the probability of the next word showing up. So how many of those words do we randomly choose from? Top p is one way that we can cut it off. Top k is another way that we can cut it off. So top p works probabilistically. It looks at those cumulative probabilities and says, "Okay, as long as we're above, you know, being 50% sure that the next word is somewhere in here, let's quit. Top K says, "Just consider the next, just consider the top 12 most likely next words. So top K is how many most likely next tokens to consider. Repeat penalty, as I mentioned in an earlier video, some earlier versions of large language models would repeat themselves. So if it would say, "Hi, my name is Dan, and I live in Austin, and I live in Austin, and I live in Austin, and I live in Austin, and I live in Austin. So repeat penalty is sort of a hard-coded way to prevent that from happening, and stop is a list of tokens that if any of these tokens show up, then Llama two will automatically stop generating text. Echo, you know, hello, hello, hello. Echo like that is do we want Llama two to respond with the prompt when it generates the output. So if we want it to also output the prompt, then we turn echo to be true. If we want it to just output the response, then we have echo be false. So let's take a few. Let's take a look at a few examples of just some very simple prompts. So we can give a relatively simple prompt called just "What is the capital of France" to Llama two, and we'll generate a response by calling the generate Llama response function, and we're going to print that response. So here, the response is: Sure, the capital of France is Paris. That's what we would expect from a Llama model or any good large language model. Here we can ask it to give us a brief overview of NLP. NLP is a bit of a multi-purposeed used acronym. So this NLP also sometimes stands for natural language processing, but sometimes it can also mean nonlinear programming, so it just so happens that in this situation, Llama two thought we were talking about natural language processing, which we were because this is a class about natural language processing, right? So here, it responded with natural language processing (NLP) is a subfield of artificial intelligence that deals with the interaction between computers and human language. Here are some key concepts and techniques used in NLP: tokenization, part of speech tagging, named entity recognition, and on and on and on. There's lots of stuff about natural language processing here. We're spending some time talking about deep learning techniques for natural language processing. So using deep neural networks to learn representations of language and improve NLP tasks. That's what Llama 2 is. It's a deep learning technique for natural language processing. And these are just some of the many concepts and techniques used in NLP. But they provide a good starting point for the understanding for understanding this exciting field. Great, doing a good job so far. List the steps to prepare a lasagna. So maybe we're Garfield and we want to learn how to prepare a lasagna. So sure, I'd be happy to help. Here the steps to prepare a delicious lasagna. Hopefully the lasagna that llama two tells us how to bake is delicious.

I have not followed this recipe. I would encourage you to. It might be good. We'll see. I'd be encouraged. I'd be interested to find out if this recipe is any good or not. So start by bringing a large pot of salted water to boil. Add the lasagna noodles and cook according to the package instructions until they are al dente. Drain the noodles and set them aside to cool. Make the tomato sauce. Make the ricotta mixture. Assemble lasagna, bake the lasagna, let it rest, and serve. Seems like a decent recipe. I am not a master lasagna chef. I certainly have cooked lasagna a few times before, but I do not know if this will turn out to be a good recipe or not.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
