All right. We can also teach our AI or our large language model how to behave. So we're going to talk about conditional prompting, few-shot prompting, and stepwise prompting. So let's talk about conditional prompting first. So here is a customer review. Customer review. Check the sentiment and classify with angry or happy. If the customer is angry, reply. Reply starting with an apology. Else, just thank the customer. So we we're building a tool that writes responses to customer reviews for us. So here we want to maybe have a customer review that says I am extremely disappointed, blah blah blah blah, and so we give Llama the customer review and we tell it what to do, and we can say, Hey, look, it actually did start with an apology because it could tell that this customer was angry, and so we want to start with an apology. So we're going to classify the text as angry or happy, and then we're going to start with either an apology or just a thank you. And look, figured out if it was happy or angry, and it did what we told it to based on that. Again, llama two is sort of prone to do this. Sure, I'd be happy to help stuff at the beginning, which isn't great. That's because we're using the chat model, not the instruct model. So the chat model tends to do a little bit more of this responding with, you know, I'm happy to help, like as if it's a chat bot. So if you don't want this, you know, use the instruct version of Llama instead of the chat version of Llama because this is specifically designed to be working work as a chat bot. So here it says, "Sure, I'm happy to help, as if it's a robot, which it is, and then actually does what we ask it to do, and it you know conditioned its response based on an analysis of that customer review, which is really kind of interesting. Here is another thing we can do with few-shot prompting. So few-shot prompting is instead of giving it explicit instructions, we can give it examples of responses that we might like. So here, here's an example: teacher prompt. There are countless fascinating animals on Earth in just a few shots. Describe three distinct animals, highlighting their unique characteristics and habits. Student response: Animal, tiger. Description: The description of a tiger. Animal, penguin. Description. Here's some of the description of a penguin. Animal, elephant. Here's a description of elephant. Do this for lion, duck, and monkey. Here's the interesting thing. So llama two is going to take what we did up here for tiger, penguin, and elephant, and do the same thing for lion, duck, and monkey. So we can see here, animal lion description: The lion is majestic pig cat, known for its regal mane and powerful roar. It inhabits and inhabits grasslands, savannas, and woodlands in Africa. Animal duck: Ducks are aquatic birds known for their distinctive webbed feet and flat bills, there are over 120 species of duck found in wetlands all around the world, ranging from small dabbling ducks to large sea-dwelling species like the harlequin duck, and on and on and on. And it does the same thing for monkey. So a few shot is instead of giving it specific instructions, we give it examples of things that we might like to see, and then have it do the same thing or mimic our responses for new examples. So, for example, here we're going to do that again. Below, we have described two distinct marketing strategies for a product launch campaign, highlighting their key points, pros and cons. So here's you know two marketing campaign things. Now to now as described above, can you do this for public relations and product collaborations? So now we're going to ask Llama to reproduce things that are like this, but instead of digital marketing and traditional advertising, we're going to ask it to do it for public relations and product collaborations. So here we get a the key points, the pros, the cons, and the risks of public relations, and we get the key points, the pros, the cons, and the risks of product collaboration. This is a really interesting response that we can get out of Llama.

It's a nice way that we can prompt Llama without having to give it really super specific instructions, we can just give it some examples of things that are that would have followed the instructions. How do we written those instructions? So here's some stepwise instructions. So here's a block of text. If you don't speak Spanish, I kind of speak Spanish, so we can see that this is in Spanish, and then we're going to give it some English instructions. Change the above article from Spanish to English, then summarize the article in 30 words. Then check the tags for the summary. Check this tags for the summary from the tag list for climate change, environment, technology, healthcare, education, business, artificial intelligence. Travel, sports, fashion, entertainment, science. Create a JSON file for all the tags with value one if the tag is present and zero if not in the above summary, and then segregate the tags based on one and zero. So we can see here we're asking you to do four things based on this block of text, and it's going to do some of these things well, but it's not going to be perfect at some of the other ones. So, for example, first, it does translate the article from Spanish to English. Climate change remains a pressing concern in Europe. The region has experienced an increase in extreme weather events over the past decade, and so on. And then, two here's a summary of the article in 30 words. Europe is taking significant steps to address climate change, but challenges persist, and international cooperation is essential for a sustainable future. The tags of the summary are climate change, environment, technology, innovation. Here is a JSON file with all the tags and their values: climate change one, environment one, technology one, and innovation one. Something we can see here is that we asked for other tags to be given a zero, so here the healthcare tag doesn't show up in this JSON file. It should have showed up with a, you know, healthcare colon zero, but it didn't show up. Based on the JSON file here, the tag segregated into categories: those present in the summary, climate change, environment, technology, and those not innovation, but hey, look, innovation is in this JSON, but it's not there. So again, it's not perfect. If you remember my earlier plea to you, please use these things ethically. Check the answers. Don't just post these things to the internet. It's going to cause problems Down the road, present climate change, environment, technology, not present innovation. Even though this article did talk about innovation, you know, it's not perfect. All right, so moving on, we can also kind of teach an AI how to think. I'm saying that kind of with tongue in cheek, we're not actually teaching it how to think. We're just designing a prompt to get an elicited response. So we're going to ask the model analyze, relate, and ask questions before it replies. So this is actually a really useful tool sometimes. So asking a large language model to ask questions about the prompt before it answers the prompt. This actually can lead to better responses sometimes. So here, if I were to just ask the LM suggest one gaming laptop, I might get a not very good answer. But if I say suggest one gaming laptop, ask me relevant questions before you choose. Now the response is going to be some questions. What is your budget for this gaming laptop? Additionally, what are your primary uses for the laptop? Do you plan to use it solely for gaming, or will you also be using it for other tasks such as work or school? Knowing these details will help me provide a more tailored recommendation. You're right. I should be giving Llama more information than just suggest a gaming laptop. I should be telling it more. I should be telling it that I'm going to use it for gaming sometimes, but I'm also going to be using it for work. I work as a videographer, and so I need to do some processing of you know videos or whatever. So if I were to give Llama Two more information than just recommend a gaming laptop to me, if I have more information in that prompt, it's going to be able to give me a better response.

So we can also teach it how to engineer something before we ask it to do it. So here, here we go. You're an engineer tasked with designing a renewable energy system for a remote island community that currently relies on diesel generators for electricity. The island has limited access to fuel and experiences frequent power outages due to logistical challenges and adverse weather conditions. Your goal is to develop a sustainable and reliable energy solution that can meet the island's power demands. Considering the following factors in your analysis provide recommendations. So, we're going to tell it what it needs to consider, what it needs to consider before it tells us what to do. Consider an energy demand analysis. Consider a resources assessment. Consider a systems design and integration. Consider economic viability. Consider environmental impact. Consider implementation and operation. After Llama considers all of these things, provide a well-researched or well-reasoned recommendation for the most suitable renewable energy system for this remote island. And we can see here, it just happened to write it in the output of a letter, dear user. Thank you for considering me as your expert consultant to design a renewable energy system. Based on your input, the island consumes approximately 500 megawatts of electricity per day, or kilowatts of electricity per day, with peak demand occurring during summer months when tourists blah blah blah. So to meet the island's energy demand reliably and efficiently, I propose a hybrid renewable energy system consisting of the following components: solar power, wind power, hydropower, and energy storage. The economic viability of the proposed hybrid renewable energy system will have a lower total cost of ownership compared to existing diesel generation. The viability. impact. The hybrid renewable system will significantly reduce the island's carbon footprint and minimize local pollution compared to diesel generation. To ensure a successful transition to renewable energy, I recommend following the implementation plan. Procure equipment from reputable suppliers. Engage local contractors. Operational strategy develop an emergency energy response protocol that includes backup power sources like the diesel generators you already have. In conclusion, a hybrid renewable energy system combining solar, wind, and hydro powers offers the most suitable solution for your remote island. So when we tell it what to consider, it can provide better answers for us. All right, we have two more lessons, so let's go on to lesson six: extracting and filtering information from a long block of text. Aha! This one's I like a lot. So here, below are a set of product reviews for phones sold on Amazon. Here are four reviews. First one is: I am fuming with anger and regret my purchase of the XUI 8/92. review: I am by on furious with my purchase of the Zetaphone z5. Purchasing the Tech Pro x8 for $900 was the biggest mistake of my life. Review four: This phone left me seething with anger and regret. Spending $1,400 on this phone was an outright scam. So, from those four reviews, extract the following information from the above reviews and output to a JSON file with the below headers, the phone model, the phone price, the complaint description, the additional charges, and the refund expected true or false. If the customer explicitly mentioned the word refund tag is true, so here we go. We get a JSON file that has four reviews and the four entries in that JSON file, so they're all reviews. And here's the first one. The first one is based on the model XUI 890. Hey, look, the first one is based on model XUI 890. The phone price was $1,500. Let's see, does it mention $1,500? Oh yes, it was an exorbitant $1,500. Complaints, constant glitches and defects, camera malfunctioned. So the device was riddled with issues from day one. The software glitches and virtually unusable. The constant crashes were infuriating. To add insult to entry, the charging port became faulty, making me expect exceptional inequality. Instead, I turned out to be a colossal disappointment. The additional charges to fix its constant glitches and defects drained my wallet even more. I spent $275 to get a new battery. The final straw was the when the camera malfunctioned, the repair cost was astronomical. So we see here that talks about constant glitches and defects, and that camera malfunction. There's an additional cost of $275, and they do want a refund.

So we can extract information from these big blocks of text and put them into a JSON that has these four entries. This is a really nice tool that we can use. Again, though, you need to make sure there isn't any preceding or trailing text. So here, there isn't any trailing, but there is some preceding text. This makes Llama an incredibly powerful tool. Our last lesson is grammar and spell check. We can use a few other cases like grammar and spell check. So here I have a a block of text. I am writing to inquire about the availability of your product. I saw it on your website, and it looks very interesting. Can you pass or place? Send me more blah blah blah. Can you proofread the above text? So we're going to ask Llama to proofread this and give us better output. So here, Llama has rewritten this letter for us, and here are a few suggestions to improve the email. Use proper capitalization and punctuation throughout the email. Avoid using written written instead of writing. Instead of availability, use availability. Instead of pricking, use pricing. Or use pricing instead of pricking. Pricking. I'm not really sure how to say p r i c i g. I think that's a word that I don't know how to say. That's not a word. Instead of shipping, use shipping. So there's lots of ways that we can do this. We can also ask it to change the tone of the text. So here we have a block of text. This phone left me seething, spending 14. $100 on this phone was an outright scam. The device was riddled with issues from day one. Blah blah blah. So we're going to ask it to convert the tone three different ways. First, it's going to convert this angry review to a neutral review. Then it's going to convert this angry review to a humorous review. Now I will I will mention here: large language models have a hard time with humor. They haven't quite grasped human humor yet, and convert this angry review to an angrier tone. So first, neutral tone. This phone left me feeling frustrated and disappointed. Seething with anger and regret is a lot more visceral and angry than frustrated and disappointed. Despite spending $1,400 on it, I experienced numerous issues from day one. The software glitches made it difficult for me to use. That's a pretty nice way of saying you couldn't use it. Now convert this angry review to a humorous review. Oh boy, where do I begin? This phone was a total lemon. Now I'm adding the context or the the tonage myself. For starters, it cost me an arm and a leg, 1400 to be exact. But what I got in return was a device that crashed more times than a teenager trying to pass their driver's test. Okay, that's an okay joke, I guess. It's not great, but it's you know not the worst joke I've ever read in my life. The software glitches were so bad that I thought I had to act accidentally a download a virus. The only thing that would have made it better was how bad was it, and I don't even get me started about the charging port. So you know this is trying to inject a little bit of humor. As I said, large language models don't quite grasp human humor. On an angrier tone, are you kidding me? This phone is an absolute joke. For $1,400, I expected a high-quality device that works perfectly, not a piece of crap that breaks after two weeks. A much more angry tone than the original tone. All right, so we've now seen large language models in use. I really hope that you've gotten something out of this. I hope that you find a way to use a large language model in your work. But please, when you do that, be careful. Large language models hallucinate a lot, as we've seen a few times here. So be careful about reading the output. Don't just take the output of large language model as you know truth, it often is not. But even though it is not often generating truth, these things are incredibly useful and incredibly powerful. I really hope that in taking these classes, you learn to use large language models responsibly and efficiently. All right, see you next time.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
