So the first question we want to answer is why do we need RAG? RAG is a special tool that's used with large language models, and one of the big problems that large language models have is that domain-specific knowledge is really not the forte of large language models. So large language models are really good at writing poetry, or understanding sentence composition rules, or telling us some generic information like what time zone is Austin, Texas, in. But for very specific domain-specific knowledge, LLMs just aren't so great. So, for example, if we run a tractor repair store and we need to repair a tractor, probably a large language model doesn't know how to repair a tractor very well. They might have been trained on a little bit of chats about people talking about repairing tractors, but if we have a new model tractor and there just really isn't that much information out there on the internet about how to fix this tractor. Well, something like ChatGPT or Llama or DeepSeek is really going to have no idea how to fix the tractor for us. It's not going to have that much detailed information. Similarly, if we have a dataset of maybe a bunch of emails between us and our customers, and we want to ask questions about who are our customers, what have they ordered in the past. Really, ChatGPT can't help us with that. So, what we need to do is create a system called a retrieval augmented generation system, and this is one common problem, one common solution to this problem of in specific domain knowledge that generic large language models just don't have. So, how does a large language model work with a RAG? Well, first, what we need is a data set. So we can think about a data set as a tractor repair manual, for example, or maybe a whole big data set or a database of emails between us and our customers, or something proprietary, or something very specific. And so, what we're going to do is we're going to ask a question, like we would ask a question in ChatGPT. Hey, ChatGPT, how do I fix this wheel? Hey, ChatGPT, which customer bought the most from me last quarter? Something like that. So, what we're going to do is we're going to use some sort of search mechanism to look through our dataset, and we're going to try to figure out which passages of our dataset are relevant to the question that's being asked. And this is the retrieval part of retrieval augmented generation. So we're going to retrieve small parts from our big dataset that are relevant to the question that's being asked. Then we're going to incorporate those relevant parts into an LLM prompt. So by incorporating those relevant parts, that's where the augmentation comes in. We're going to augment that question of, "Hey ChatGPT, how do we answer this question? How do I fix this tire? How do I figure out which customer is the best customer? Once I figured out, I'm going to use both the question and the context, the bits of information I found from my dataset, and I'm going to augment my prompt, and I'm going to create a prompt that goes into a large language model and has both the original question and the relevant context. And I'm going to ask ChatGPT or any other large language model. Sometimes I use ChatGPT as just a generic term for any large language model. So I'm going to ask my large language model to answer the question for me using the information that I found from my dataset. So this is the retrieval augmented generation. Again, retrieval means go find the relevant information from my dataset that's relevant to my question, augment, put the question and the relevant chunks of text together, and then generation ask our large language model to answer the question for us using both of those pieces of information, both the question and the relevant information from our dataset. So here's the generic step-by-step process for a rag. Let's say we have a domain-specific question: What customer was it that wanted to buy 500 units from us for delivery in April? So it's a domain-specific question. Now we're going to search our database of domain-specific information for relevant chunks of text that are similar to that question or relevant to that question.

Then we're going to find those most relevant chunks of text, and we're going to put them into an. LLM prompt that has both the question and the results from part three. With all of this together, we can finally ask our LLM to answer the question for us. And hopefully, if we do this well and we find relevant chunks of text that actually do correspond to the question being asked, then ChatGPT or any other large language model that can finally give us a good answer to our question. So let's think about this with a hard example. Let's say, for example, I was a narcissist and I've written an autobiography about myself. I don't think I am worthy of an autobiography, but let's just say I've written an autobiography. So in this autobiography, I have hundreds and hundreds of pages of information about Dan, life stories. You know when I fell off my bike as a elementary school kid, where I went to college, all sorts of stuff like that. And so maybe what I do is I have a question about me. Maybe you want to know something about me. Maybe you want to know where is Dan from, so what you're going to do is you're going to have some sort of model search my autobiography and find out some relevant sentences about that I wrote about myself. So maybe one of those sentences that you think is relevant or your model thinks is relevant is the fact that Dan is a professor at UT. This is a sentence somewhere in my autobiography, another sentence that's in my autobiography somewhere is Dan grew up in Houston, and now maybe there's a third sentence somewhere in my autobiography that says Dan lives in Austin now. And let's say you have some search tool that finds these three pieces of information about me, and it thinks those three pieces of information, those three sentences from my autobiography, your search tool thinks those three chunks of text are relevant to the question "Where is Dan from? So what Rag will do was it will take these three chunks of text and the question, and it will put it all together in this black text in a more complicated prompt to the large language model, so maybe our prompt to the large language model would be something like: Answer the following question with the context below. Question colon: Where is Dan from? Context: Dan is a professor at UT. Dan grew up in Houston. Dan lives in Austin now. Answer colon. And as we all know large language models are really just sophisticated next word predictors, just like you have when you're writing a text on your cell phone, and it makes a few recommendations. Large language models just do that over and over and over again, really quickly, with a lot more accuracy than your cell phone, and so it just predicts the next word, and then it predicts the next word, and then it predicts the next word, so maybe it predicts the first word as Dan, and then it predicts the next word is is. Then maybe predicts the next word is from, and then it predicts the next word Houston, and then it predicts the next thing, which is just a period to say that we're done. So after it predicts these five tokens, it quits, and then you have an answer to your question. Now you can imagine why this is useful. If we just were to ask Llama or ChatGPT or DeepSeek or some other large language model, "Where is Dan from? without any context about me as a person, the large language model would say, "Well, I don't know who Dan is. Can you be more specific? Or maybe it would make something up. Maybe it would say Dan is from New York. Or maybe it would say I can't answer that question because you haven't told me anything about Dan. Is there a specific Dan you're interested in? So if we don't have specific information, then we can't answer the question. Similarly, if I ask ChatGPT who is my best customer, which customer spends the most money with me, ChatGPT has no idea. There's no way it knows what customer has spent the most money with me. But if I have a database of sales information, I say, okay, here are all of my customers and their sales revenues.

Well, now maybe you put all of that information into a prompt with your large language model, and finally, your large language model can answer the question because it sees lots of context relevant to the question that's being asked, and that is the beauty of RAG retrieval augmented generation. It really helps prevent hallucination or your large language model telling you that it doesn't know how to answer a question, or just lots of problems that show up pretty frequently with large language models.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
