Now that we know how a rag works, the next thing we need to figure out is how to find the best context to put into that LLM prompt. So, how did I find these three pieces of information about me? Now, there are lots and lots and lots of ways we can do search. We can do keyword-based search. We can do TF-IDF search. We can do topic modeling. There's lots and lots of ways we can do search. But we're going to specifically talk in this sequence of videos about a new tool called semantic similarity. So let's think about the following three questions or the following three chunks of text to motivate semantic similarity. So here I have three sentences. The first sentence says the weather outside is nice. The second sentence says it's 75 degrees and partly cloudy today. If you're not from the states and you don't know it's 75, 75 is Fahrenheit. It's right around like 23, 24 degrees Celsius. And the third sentence is: We are outside today partly because 75 nice clouded leopards are a few degrees north of here. As you and I can both tell, these two sentences are very similar to each other. This sentence is an outlier. It's not similar to either of the other two sentences. However, if we were to use a keyword search to see is the first sentence similar to the second sentence, using the same keyword, if we're just using keywords, there's not a single word that overlaps between these two sentences. The first sentence says the weather is nice outside. The second sentence says it's 75 degrees and partly cloudy today. Not a single word is shared between these two sentences. But you and I both know that these sentences really mean the same thing. On the other hand, I've designed this third sentence to be a little bit of a silly sentence that doesn't really mean anything, but it shares a lot of the same words as both of these first two sentences. So here, the word outside shows up. The word outside shows up. The word today shows up. The word today shows up. The word partly shows up. The word partly shows up. The number 75 shows up. The number 75 shows up. The word nice shows up. The word nice shows up. The word clouded shows up. The word cloudy shows up. A lot of keyword-based search have what's called stimming, where they remove suffixes for from words. So cloudy and clouded would probably both be thought of as being the similar words, degrees shows up. Degrees shows up. So the third sentence shares a lot of common words with both of the first two sentences, but the third sentence is not related at all to the first two sentences. And even though the first two sentences don't share any common words; they are very related to each other. So this causes a problem. If we're trying to ask a question in my vocabulary, but the database was written using your vocabulary, then you know we might not find the relevant results if we are just using keyword-based search. What semantic similarity does is it tries to use a transformer to understand what is the context, what is the meaning behind this sentence, and then what is the meaning of this sentence, and then what is the meaning of this sentence, and then if we can get a contextual meaning of the three sentences, we can say, "Hey, look! The contextual meaning of the first two sentences really is pretty similar. The contextual meaning of the third sentence is not similar at all to the first two sentences. So this is semantic seminary. Are the two sentences semantically similar or not. So if I write what customer has spent the most money with you, and the database says this person has this much revenue and this much revenue and this much revenue, well, revenue and spent. Although I know that revenue and spent really mean the same thing, they aren't the same word. So a keyword-based search methodology probably wouldn't do very good job. However, if we use a transformer-based model, like we've seen lots before, to understand the meaning of this sentence and use a transformer to mean the meaning of this sentence, then finally we can get a sense of are these two sentences the same or not? Are they related to each?

So the way we're going to do this is we're going to use a transformer model to take a chunk of text and embed it into a single vector. As we know about transformers, transformers take sequences of tokens and transform them into sequences of vectors, right? So what we want to do is use a model like that to transform not just a sentence into a sequence of vectors, but transform a sentence into a single vector, maybe of size 1000, for example. So I want to have 1000 numbers that represent this whole sentence. Everything we've seen so far with transformers creates a vector of size 1000 for the word the, a vector of size 1000 for the word weather, a vector of the word size 1000 for the word is, a vector of size 1000 for nice, a vector of size 1000 for outside, a vector of size 1000 for period. We don't want to do that. We want to have a single vector of size 1000 that represents the entire sentence and encapsulates what the whole thing means. So now, once I have a vector of size 1000 for the first sentence, and a vector of size 1000 for the second sentence, and a vector of size 1000 for the third sentence, then I can use math to determine if these vectors are similar to each other or not. So we're going to determine that similarity between those vectors using math after we get the output from our transformer model. So how are we actually going to do this? We're going to use a model that's pretty similar to BERT. So some of y'all might have heard of BERT before. BERT stands for Bidirectional Encoder Representation of Transformers. So encoder is really what we're after here. An encoder takes a chunk of text and learns about it, and kind of represents that chunk of text as a vector. So what we're going to do is we're going to base all of these searches on something like a BERT model. Now it might not exactly be BERT, but really what we want is an encoder-based model. So let's feed the first sentence into our BERT model, and let's feed. So this is the first sentence text block A. Let's feed that into our BERT model, and then let's feed our second sentence into our BERT model. And now, based on that, we have maybe you know, let's say sentence one is five words, and sentence two is 15 words. Now I have five vectors here and 15 vectors there. What we want to do is take those five vectors for text block A and those 15 vectors for text block B, and we really just want to average them. So here, average all of those five word embeddings from text block A. Average those five word embeddings from text block B. Now we have a single vector that represents text block A, which is five words, and a single vector which that represents text block B. So text block A, even though it was five words, and text block B, even though it was 15 words, each of them are now represented by one vector and one vector only. Now, if we have two vectors that represent two different sentences, now we can calculate the cosine similarity between those two vectors. So I have an average of five vectors for text block A and an average of 10 or 15 vectors for text block B. So I'm left with two vectors: the average of five words over here, the average of 15 words over here. Now I can take their cosine similarity. Remember, cosine similarity is like the dot product divided by the square root of the product of their sizes. So now we can get the sense of how similar are these two chunks of text. So maybe this check chunk of text A is where is Dan from, and maybe this chunk of text is from a chunk of text from my autobiography that says Dan grew up in Houston. So now we can calculate the cosine similarity between those two chunks of text, and aha, they should have a pretty high cosine similarity probably. Now sentences, if that's all we do, sentences that have similar context will have a high cosine similarity. Sentences that have dissimilar context will have low similarity.

This really isn't quite perfect though, because Bert was not trained to do similarity search, Bert was not trained so that we would be taking the average of all these vectors and then calculating the cosine similarity. Bert was trained to kind of get the sense of what words go where in a sentence, which words are related to what other words. Not really is this big chunk of text similar to this other big chunk of text. So it's not a perfect thing to do, but have no fear. What we can do is we can fine tune our BERT model. What we can do is take a big old chunk of data where we know that sentences are similar to each other, and another big old chunk of data where we know sentences are not similar to each other, and say let. Let's do this process of feeding the similar chunks of text into BERT and averaging all of their word embeddings, and then calculating the cosine similarity between these two chunks of text, and seeing you know does this have a high similarity or not. If we know that two sentences have high similarity, then it stands to reason their cosine similarity should be high. So why don't we create a reward function where if we have two sentences where the we know that they are similar sentences, let's reward ourselves if Bert thinks that similarity is high, and let's penalize ourselves if Bert thinks that similarity is low, and then let's do some more stochastic gradient descent. Let's just train Bert a little bit more. Let's take some more steps where we change our loss function. Bert was originally trained to predict words in the middle of a sentence, but instead of using that as our loss function, let's use our loss function of did Bert get the right answer to is this chunk of text similar to this chunk of text? To be able to do this, though, we need a huge data set of chunks of text that we know are similar, or a huge data set of chunks of text that are questions and answers to those questions. Because we might be using our rag to answer questions, or we might be using our rag to find you know things that are just similar to each other. So we need to find some way to update the weights and biases of our BERT model. The way we're going to do that is by getting a big data set. Now it seems like that might be a you know pretty labor intensive. However, we can outsource this to the internet. So when I say outsource, we don't actually going to pay anybody to do it. It's already been done for us. There are lots of data sets out there that are pretty clever. So, for example, have any of you posted a question to Stack Overflow before, and then you see that the first response is somebody else has already answered this question before. Here's a link to that question. That is a perfect example of finding two questions that are similar to each other: the question I asked and the question the other person asked, and the answer to my question has been linked to that question. So I can go and I can scrape Stack Overflow or any of the other overflows. There's lots of overflow. There's math overflow. There's Stack Overflow. There's lots of overflows out there, and so we can go scrape Stack Overflow or whatever and say anytime we find a question that has been tagged as a repeat question, let's grab the original question and the tagged repeat, and say those two questions are similar. Now we can get 10s of 1000s of questions that are similar to each other. That's 10s of 1000s of data points we can use to train our BERT model. Another example of finding sentences that are similar to each other comes from Reddit. There's a subreddit called Eli Five, which stands for Explain Like I'm Five. So somebody will ask a complicated question, and then somebody who's presumably an expert on this area will answer the question and try to explain the answer to that question as if the person was a five-year-old. Now, Reddit works based on democracy, right? The people, the answer that gets the most upvotes is at the top.

The person, the answer that gets the least upvotes is at the bottom. So what we can do is we can go scrape all of these Eli five posts and take the question and the top comment and say, Hey, look! All of a sudden, we have a data set of questions and answers that we can use to fine tune our BERT model. Now we have 10s of 1000s of repeat questions of things that we know are similar, and we have 10s of 1000s of question answer pairs. We have now a pretty good data set that can be used to fine tune our BERT model. Now a lot of these models use other data sets too for this. There are lots of data sets out there besides these two, but these are the two pretty common ones, and it kind of gives us an idea or a flavor of how we can, you know, fit this model. Now, I mentioned that a minute ago. Usually, we can take the average of all of the tokens in our sentence. That's one way of doing it. There's another very common way of doing it. It turns out that every chunk of text when you feed into a transformer has a dummy token at the beginning called the BOS token. BOS stands for beginning of sequence, and the beginning of sequence token. Any time you plug. Anything into a large language model or a BERT or whatever, there's a dummy token at the very beginning. So we call this BOS for beginning of sequence. Why is it there? It's really just there to kind of give the large language model a sense of this is the beginning. And so another common way to train a semantic similarity model is to use the BOS token instead of the average of all the tokens. So if I have a question like "Where is Dan from? question mark, you would think that this would be broken into 12345, tokens. In actuality, at the beginning, there will be a BOS token, and at the end there will be an EOS token in our in our model. EOS stands for end of sequence, and so what we can do is instead of averaging this token, this token, this token, this token, and this token, what we can do instead is just grab the BOS token and say this BOS token represents the entire sentence, and now we can do the same thing of grab the BOS token for where is Dan from, and we can grab the BOS token from Dan grew up in Houston, and we can calculate the cosine similarity between those two BOS tokens. So that's another very common way of doing it. Different models use different strategies, but those are the two most common ways: either using the BOS token or using the average of all the tokens in the sentence. Now there are lots and lots and lots of pre-trained models out there, so we don't have to train a model ourselves. Hugging Face maintains a really big repository of semantic similarity search models using BERT-based models or whatever. And when we get to the hands-on session in a little while, where we actually build a rag, we're going to look at this Hugging Face repository of lots and lots and lots of pre-trained models, and we're going to use one of those that we get from Hugging Face.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
