So now that we know how semantic similarity works, let's see how we use it for retrieval augmented generation. The most important thing about retrieval augmented generation is searching a database of our relevant information. So what we're going to do is we're going to take our big dataset, whether that be a tractor repair manual or a bunch of emails between us and customers or whatever it might be, and we're going to break it up into a bunch of chunks of text. We want each chunk of text to sort of be relevant unto itself. We don't want like an email between me and customer one to be in the same chunk of text as an email between you know another person in the company and sales in customer six, for example. So we want each chunk of text to sort of be self-contained in the sense that it's relevant to itself. It's not also got irrelevant information in it that's not related to it. So what we're going to do is we're going to go through and we're going to split our database into a bunch of chunks. Now, one thing we do really need to be careful about is that depending on which semantic similarity model we're using, the size of the chunk could be really important. Most models for semantic similarity that are based on BERT have a maximum length of 512 tokens. So that means if we have a chunk of text that has maybe 700 words in it, then Bert's going to ignore most of the words at the end. It's going to ignore something like 200 words at the end of your chunk of text. So it is really important that when you choose your semantic similarity model, you pay attention to the maximum number of tokens that a chunk of text can sustain. Most models will tell you what that is, but a good rule of thumb is that if it's a reasonably sized model based on something like BERT, it's probably 512 tokens. So what we need to do is split our big database into chunks of text where each chunk of text is smaller than the maximum number of tokens that our semantic similarity model uses. So the model I'm going to use in a little while when we actually build our rag, that's going to have a maximum window of 512, so sometimes they call this a context window. How many tokens are allowed in the chunk of text? So it's sometimes called a context window. So the model I'm going to use in a little while has a context window of 512. Some other newer models that actually are pretty big and you know kind of hard to deal with will have context windows of 1000s or 10s of 1000s of words, if you're lucky. But you know, when you have that many words, can you really, you know, if you have 10,000 words in a single chunk of text, can you really represent that with a single vector? Probably 10s of 1000s of words really has lots of different topics. So sometimes that might not be the best thing to do, even if you can, so it's usually a good idea to chunk to break your chunks into bite-sized pieces that are really about one thing specific, so that when we're searching for very specific things, not you know, is it somewhere in this 10,000 word essay on you know the use of the color green and the Great Gatsby, whatever it might be, right? So we need to break our tractor manual into a lot of chunks, and then we need to feed each of those chunks into our embedding model. So we're going to use a model based on BERT here in a little while. You could be using a ChatGPT embedding model. You could be using a Gemini embedding model. There's all sorts of embedding models out there, but we're going to use one, and so we need to go through and loop through each of those chunks of text, and pass it through our embedding model so that we get a single vector for each chunk of text. So we have a single vector for this paragraph, this paragraph, this paragraph, this paragraph, this paragraph, for example, and then once we feed our each individual chunk of text into our pre-trained embedding model, we're going to store that data in a database.

So we really need to think about this database as being like a three-column database. Column one is the raw text for that chunk. So we can think about a three-column database is having three columns, and then a bunch of rows. A row for each chunk of text and three columns of information. So for each chunk of text, we need three pieces of information: what was the raw text, what was the output from our from our embedding model, what was the vector that represents that chunk of text, and. And finally, some metadata. So that might be what document did it come from. That might be what page in the document it came from. That might be how many words it is. Just some sort of metadata about that chunk of text, because there are some rag methodologies that need to know. For example, did this come from an email between me and customer one, or between email an email between me and customer 17, for example. So that third column just stores some relevant information about that chunk of text. There are lots of databases out there that will do this for us. These are specifically called vector databases. I've listed here four, but there are lots more. Faiss is a popular one. This is maintained by Facebook. So faiss stands for Facebook AI Similarity Search. Pinecone is another common one. Pinecone has a free version and a pay version. The free version you can host locally, but the pay version you can host it on their cloud, so they will host your vector database for you, and so you can access it anywhere. And you you know you pay per you pay per row, or you pay per megabyte, or something like that. Another popular one that you might have seen somewhere else in Great Learning is called Chroma or Chroma DB for database. Elasticsearch is a really old and big and popular search tool that's been around for a really long time and is really powerful. Traditionally, Elasticsearch was based on keyword search, but they have recently released a product where they do semantic similarity search. I have not tried it yet, but I have talked to people that say if you're in the Elastic universe and you use Elasticsearch for other things, then it's a really good tool to use. So if you've used Elasticsearch before, you can now use Elasticsearch for building your vector database.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
