Rags are everywhere. There are lots and lots and lots of software tools out there available that can do rag. I'm going to highlight a few different things that are pretty commonly used out there, and we're going to build our own here in a little while. So first, I want to talk about LangChain and Llama Index. LangChain and Llama Index are two Python tools that are built for making rags. They let you put lots of stuff together. Let you put an embedding model together with a vector database together with a large language model, and put it all together in one easy to use framework. LangChain and Llama Index are both really good tools for this. Llama, again, anything that's relative to Llama is probably based on Facebook. I actually don't know if Llama Index was made from Facebook or not, but you know it's in reference to all these llama models that Facebook put out in in the recent years. LangChain was the first one to come out that was specifically built to make RAG easy to do, but in 2023 they got a bunch of venture capital funding and they got really big really quickly and they kind of broke a lot of stuff as they went, so a lot of people complain about LangChain not being consistent. You know, packages get deprecated, tools that used to work don't work. You update your version of LangChain, and your software that used to work doesn't work anymore. You know that is a valid concern, but a lot of it is really straightforward and easy to overcome. So when we build our RAG, we are going to use LangChain. I don't think those issues are as big as some people make them out to be. Personally, I don't write software that's ready for production, so you know I don't have that experience. Some other people might. Llama Index is really good at doing RAG, but Llama Index does a lot of other stuff too. It's really built around building agentic systems, and RAG is like the simplest agentic system you can ever imagine. So it does have a RAG tool, but there's lots of other more complicated things you can do with Llama. You can do more complicated things with LangChain also, but we're going to build our RAG tool using LangChain. There are several other commercial versions of RAG out there. So, for example, some of y'all might have heard of the company c3 AI. They advertise on their radio a lot in the United States, and c3 AI is really a AI company that does consulting for really big corporations. So, for example, like the Department of Defense in the United States is a customer of c3 AI. Like the big guys out there use c3 AI, and they just do software consulting to make you know help big companies use AI. And one of the tools they offer, and they actually advertise on the radio here. I've heard the advertisement for them is essentially just a rag. So, for example, for the Department of Defense, they built a rag where it helps people that are evaluating grant proposals to see, or not grant proposals, but RFPs, requests for proposals. Like, let's say the Department of Defense needs a new chemical to go on the outside of ships to make the barnacles not grow on the ships, for example. So they're going to put out a proposal and says, "Hey, companies, who wants to make this new chemical for us? And so, if you're the person at the Department of Defense evaluating whether or not this is a good proposal for this new chemical or not, you might want to look at old proposals. And so c3 AI built a rag tool for people at the Department of Defense to look at old proposals for doing work for the DoD. They have lots of other big customers out there too. They advertise. I've watched a video where they talked about building a rag for the Department of Defense. Another big one that's commercially available out there is something called Westlaw Precision. In the United States, there's a database called Westlaw. This is a legal database. So, for example, anytime anyone sues somebody or gets charged with you know robbery or whatever. Anytime anything goes before a judge, there's a case file with it.

And Westlaw, what they do is they maintain a database of every legal proceeding ever in the United States. The big competitors to this are like Thomson Reuters, maybe. I think Westlaw actually got bought by LexisNexis. Don't quote me on that, but I think so. So it's just a big legal database, and what they've built is a rag on top of that, and they call the rag on their big legal legal database Westlaw Precision. So if you have a question, can I sue my next door neighbor? For cutting down my tree in Austin, Texas. Well, now what Westlaw Precision will do is it will go out and skim the case law. It will search the case law in Austin, Texas for people that have cut down trees, and it will then write a summary of what you can and can't sue for. So this is another commercially available rag. Actually, I was mistaken. Westlaw is owned by Thomson Reuters, and one of their bigger competitors is Lexus Nexus. So let's go through and see how we're going to put this all together using LangChain. So as I mentioned, LangChain is a software. It's written for Python to help you put all of this together. It's used to help you put your embedding model together with your vector database together with your large language model. So LangChain and Llama Index can both do this, and there's lots of other tools out there too. But let's see how we're going to do this with LangChain. So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to create our database. So to be able to do this, we need to get our set of documents. LangChain has built in lots of tools that can be used to grab lots of different types of documents. So you can grab PDF documents, you can grab text documents you can grab JSON documents you can grab all sorts of documents. So LangChain is really just a wrapper, meaning that they make other people's functions work together. So they didn't write the PDF reader, they didn't write the text reader. They just take other people's stuff and make it work nicely together. So if you have a tool that's been used for text-based analysis, probably you can use it using LangChain, and then it will work nicely when you put it together with your rag. So we're going to give it our documents or a directory of documents, whatever it is. We need to give LangChain our documents. Then what we need to do is we need to split our documents into overlapping chunks. So there's lots of ways you can create chunks of text. You could do it based on paragraph. You could use a language model to get a judge of when the context of your chunks of text are changing. There's lots of ways you can chunk text together. We're going to use a really simple one where we're just going to get chunks of text that are 1000 or 2000 characters long that overlap by 200 characters. So we're going to get 2000 characters here and 2000 characters here, and they're going to overlap. Why are we going to do it that way? Because it's the simplest way of doing it. Then we're going to pass each chunk into our embedding model, and then we're going to save that embedded chunk into a vector database. As I mentioned, there are lots of vector databases out there. So I mentioned there's FAISS, Pinecone, Chroma, Elastic. There's all sorts of vector databases. We're going to use FAISS for no reason other than I felt like it. But you know, use whatever vector database you want to. I think FAISS is easy to use, but all of these other vector databases are easy to use also. Then a query comes in. We're going to embed that query with the same embedding model we used to build our database. Finally, we'll find the top search results. LangChain has lots of different ways you can decide how many search results to use. I'm just going to use the top few because it's simple. And then finally, we're going to feed the query and the results into our LLM and design a nice prompt around it that kind of looks like this black text that I saw over here.

So answer the following question with the context below: question colon, where is Dan from? Context answer colon. So here we want to we're going to get LangChain to design this prompt for our LLM that has both the query and the relevant context we found from our vector database, and we'll see what that prompt looks like when we actually build the the rag system. Now, if we can put all this together, we will have a working rag that we can use for our internal databases to do really any sort of search we want.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
