Right now that we know what goes into building a rag, what parts are needed, how everything works together, let's actually build one. So we have here at this Jupyter notebook that's up on Colab. So this will be shared with you, so you can follow along with me. So this is a Jupyter notebook that I'm going to run, and I have everything in here that we need from start to finish to build a rag. The first thing we need to do though is install a few packages, particularly because we're going to be using an LLM from Hugging Face that is relatively big. So we do need to make sure we get the right software installed for that. So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to build this library right here. So this is this exclamation point you might have seen before an exclamation point at the beginning of a line says, "Don't run this in Python, but run this in like the command prompt or the terminal or something like that. Depending on if you're on a Windows machine or a Linux machine or a Mac, Colab, I believe, is run on I believe Colab is run on Linux machines. So this exclamation point stuff, everything to the right will be run in a in a terminal shell for for your Linux machine, and this will install the ability to access the GPU for building a large language model. So what this line does is it imports the Llama CPP Python, Llama CPP Python, or installs the Llama CPP Python, is how we can use a large language model that we download from Hugging Face and give it access to the right resources on that Linux machine that Colab is being run on somewhere on a Google server somewhere in the world, right? So running this puts out a lot of output, right? It you know installs a lot of things and it gives access to all this NVIDIA stuff. So we see here that we're giving access to NVIDIA. NVIDIA is the company that makes the GPUs that we're running on, so it is important that when you run this, if you go to your runtime type, that we're using a GPU. I have Colab Pro, so there's lots of GPUs I can choose from. I think most of you on the free version of Colab will be able to use the T4 GPU, but this import gives access to the graphics card for our large language model, so it is really important that you run this. If you don't, you won't be able to use the large language model that we need to actually write the answers to our RAG questions. Next, we need to install some regular Python packages, so we're going to install LangChain. So, as we've mentioned before in the earlier video, LangChain is a wrapper package that puts lots of stuff together. It puts the text reader, it takes the text chunker, it puts the embedding model, the database, and the large language model all together in a nice compact package. So we're going to install LangChain, and as I've mentioned earlier, LangChain is a bit fragmented, so it is important that you keep up to date. And so, as of today, this code works, but six months from now, you know, we'll see. But we will try to keep this Jup notebook updated as versions of LangChain get updated. We will release new versions of you know what packages we need. So what you're watching now and what you see when you download this Jupyter notebook might be different depending on when you are you know going through this module. But we will keep things updated. So one thing that is weird about LangChain is we have to install LangChain, and then we have to install the LangChain community, which is just another way to get access to other LangChain packages. Why it's not all in one package, I don't know, but it's fine. We're going to install PyTorch. So Torch is Facebook's version neural network code, and so even though we aren't building our own neural networks, our large language model and our sentence embedding model are both transformer neural networks, and they're both built using PyTorch. So we do need to install this PyTorch package.

Similarly, we need to install the Synostransformers package because we're going to use a an embedding model that takes you know a big old chunk of text and converts it into a single vector, and the package we're going to do for this use for this is called the Sentence Transformers package, FAISS. This is the Facebook AI Similarity Search database. So we're going to use the this database. We're going to use the CPU version. So we're installing FAISS CPU. I'm not actually going to use a PDF for this this code, but we could, and it is relatively straightforward to use the PDF reader from Hugging Face, or not from Hugging Face, but from Pi PDF, and then link it up with LangChain. So I am going to install Pi PDF so that if you have a rag that you want to build over PDF documents, then you absolutely can using PyPDF. And then finally, we're going to download the Hugging Face Hub. Hugging Face Hub is what allows us to download that large language model that we're actually going to use. I think we're going to use a version of Llama Two, so we're going to download Llama Two, that large language model from Hugging Face, and the hub is the the pack the Python package that allows us to download packages from the Hugging Face webpage or download large language models from the Hugging Face web page. So you can see here this install has a lot of output, and it you know goes and does what it needs to do. After you run this, it is important that you restart the runtime. All of this is being done on the back end. This is not nothing here has been Python so far. This has all been run on your Linux terminal. So it is important that you restart your session or restart your runtime, and then you don't need to run this stuff again. But you will need to go down here. So I will say, if you start a new Colab session, like if you leave this session and come back later, you will have to run all of this stuff again. So you'll have to run this chunk and this chunk again if you leave Colab and come back. But when you restart the runtime, you don't need to run these two chunks again. So now that we have the appropriate packages installed in our environment, we're going to start. We're going to now import the libraries that we actually need. So from LangChain, LangChain is, I've said, a wrapper. In wrappers, usually talk in the vocabulary of pipelines, where you know you put this together and this together and this together and this together, and it makes a pipeline. In LangChain, they don't call them pipelines; they call them chains. So what we're going to import is the retrieval QA chain. This is LangChain talk for RAG. They call it a retrieval QA. We've been calling it RAG. They're they're synonyms for each other. So inside of the LangChain chains sublibrary, there is a RAG function. So we're going to use this RAG function. LangChain, as I've mentioned, puts everything together and makes everything nice to you. So even though the Synostransformers package here that we installed is not part of LangChain, Synostransformers is its own thing, but because LangChain is a wrapper, it has the ability to access that Synostransformers package. So here, from the LangChain embeddings sublibrary, we can import the sentence transformers embeddings. So this is just LangChain code that will go to our sentence transformers package and use the functions there. We also need to split our text, so we're going to use the recursive character text splitter. Here, which one important word here is character, so this means that we're going to split up our big long document by letter. We're not going to do it by word. We're not going to do it by paragraph. We're not going to do it by context. We will make the splits based on the letter. Now you could do more sophisticated splitting if you want to, but this is meant to be an introduction to RAG. So if you want to learn more about other types of text splitters, have at it. LangChain has lots of has access to lots of other text splitters inside of the LangChain text splitter sublibrary.

The simplest one is the recursive character text splitter. So that's the one we're going to use. LangChain also has wrappers for our vector databases, LangChain calls them vector stores. That's fine. We're going to use the FAISS vector database again. That's Facebook AI similarity search. Then we're going to use a document loader again from LangChain. So we're going to have a text document that we'll load, and yeah, that's that's the text document loader that we're going to use from Hugging Face Hub. This is, as you recall, the place where we download our large language model from Hugging Face. We need to import the download function. So here we're going to say I want to be able to download stuff from the Hugging Face Hub. So that's the function we're going to use, and then finally from our LangChain LLMs library or sublibrary, we're going to import Llama CPP. That means we're going to be able to use the Llama model that we download from Hugging Face inside of LangChain. Now I do want. To point out one other possibility, if you're running this on your own computer instead of Colab, what I would recommend is instead of downloading all of this Llama CPP stuff up here, what I would recommend doing is going and getting Olama. Olama is a tool that you download and install on your computer, it's really the easiest way to get access to the newest large language models. So here you can download this. I'm on a Mac, so I would download it for Mac OS. If you're on a Windows machine, you would download it for your Windows machine. If you're on a Linux machine, you'd you know you'd run this. I'm on a Mac, so here I would download and install this. I've already downloaded and installed this, so I don't need it. But if you are interested in running one of these large language models on your own computer, Olama is second to none. It is the easiest way to get access to new large language models. Unfortunately, we can't use Olama with Colab because we would have to download and install something on the Colab machines that we don't have access to. But that's okay. So we can just use this if you're interested in running Olama or some other large language model on your own computer. I like could do it this way, but you know, for these modules, we're doing everything on Colab. If you want to do this at home on your own computer, go ahead and download Olama. Once you download Olama, you can access all these different large language models. We have Deep Seek, we have Gemma three, we have Llama 3.1, we have Llama 3.2, we have Mistral, we have Llama three, we have Lava, we have five, we have Gemma, we have all sorts of access to easy, easy access to large language models. So it is worth your time if you're going to do this on your own to do this using Olama. But you know we're not doing that, so we'll just stick with Llama CPP, which allows us to do this on Colab.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
