The intro in time, on time, of course. So the first half an hour, we'll just do a quick round of introduction, just knowing each other a little well, a little better, of course, and then switching the gears a bit. Then how mostly this class, you know, goes is we have a presentation. Okay, I hope everyone has access to Olympus dashboard. If not, let me know. This is the dashboard which you can see. Again, I'm a mentor, so I may have a little different, you know, view than you guys. But mostly, this looks like this, right? We have videos, almost like 10 to 15 minutes videos, right? So the expectation is that before coming to the class, just go through those right. Try to understand what concept we are going to learn today. Okay, I'm not expecting it to be 100% proficient, of course, right? But go through the videos, right, so that you can do some sort of a homework, right, or a background before coming to the class, right. So spend some time already. I'm hoping this should be visible to your dashboard every four to five days before, right? Before the weekend class, like today is Saturday, so I'm hoping every Tuesday or Wednesday these topics would be available on your dashboard. So go through the videos. There would be some spot quiz. I think your program manager is the best point of contact since I'm a third party here, right? So I'll be mostly taking care of the mentorship part, like anything related to concept, any new con, any new. Sorry, I'll go slow, of course. Any new concept, any new thing in industry, what what mostly how mostly we apply RAG and all that, right? So I'll be taking care on the implementation part, but if it's related to your content, if it's related to the videos, anything, you know, programmatically, you know, so I think the program manager is the best point of contact for that. Okay, so again, like I said, expectation is come come prepared at least through these videos, go through those before coming to the class. I know this is the first session, so everything is exempted for today. But the idea is that yes, as we gradually go on from today till the end of the course, it's good to make sure that you know we go through these videos. Okay, that's one. Second thing is, like I said, structure of the class, right? So always we come with the presentation, so if I just open my, so this is the actual, you know, can see this presentation here. So we'll be spending around 3540, minutes on the deck post our brainstorming session. So first two, three minutes we'll do some brainstorming. I'm going to ask some basic questions around what exactly is rag or that specific week, right, which we are touching based on? So just doing some brainstorming, right? Where do you see the application? What do you see the pitfalls? Are there any shortcomings or those concepts or those principles, right? And then we'll do a deep dive in the presentation for 3540 minutes, just to make it little more engaging. I will make sure that I'll circulate some additional content. Also, right here you can see. I'm going to share the link with you. Okay, some of the content would of course be great learning, but some of the extra stuff like how can you run, how can you write prompts, right? Some basic notebooks, right? Like this is you can see I'm just creating one more, some more notebooks to explore. So this I always do with my regular batch because I always make I always know that seeing is believing, right? So on the presentation we can talk, but we can't see, right? So I will make sure that I take pauses in between the presentation so that you guys can see what I'm talking about, right? So I'll take pauses, I'll show you the exact thing, and then come back, okay? So that we complete the loop, okay? And no one is in limbo, right? So I'll just make sure to do that also. And all this content, which is extra apart from great learning, I will make sure I'll cover this. I include this, and before I let you guys go, I'll share the link with you as well.

Okay, so that you have access to it and you can play around with it. Okay, so yeah, this and then the remaining one one hour, I'll say approx one hour, one and a half hours. We will be investing on the project. Okay, the hands-on session where we will create a project, run it end to end to get a bit more familiarity. That would be a walkthrough of all the concepts what we have learned, and that would be the application of it. Okay, so for that also, I mostly prefer you know creating a presentation for that also, like what we are going to talk about today. If I show you right, just allow me a minute. I want to make sure I have the correct presentation with me. Let me go to the link here. So, like, if I open this here, right, medical rack. This is a project. What are you going to talk about? So, just making sure that this is also visible, right? So, I'll go through this also because straight away jumping onto the notebook may not be the best, you know, approach. So from that perspective, I want to make sure we see what needs to be done today. So just like high level, and then we'll go to the specifics on each and every block of the code. Okay, so that should be it. Nothing to worry. Like I said, first session. So take it very easy. Okay, we'll go slow and steady, and that should be the crux of discussion. Let me know if you have any follow-up questions. If you have any comments, thoughts, any questions? I mostly prefer chat, so you can type it here, and I'll try to answer it right away. But if I feel like that needs a little bit more background setting, right, or a little bit more time than 3035 seconds, then I'll pause and I'll share and cover that at the end of the session. Okay, but rest assured, I'll make sure that question gets answered. Okay, the WhatsApp group is also being created. I'm also going to share my email ID as well, so we can directly be in touch. Also, right in case if something is not making sense here, maybe in a five minutes offline talk, perfectly fine. Okay. So that should be it. Like I said, hope someone just recently joined. Again, like I said, we do a quick introduction round first. Okay. I'll call out the names, keeping it short. Your name, your professional background, your location, and your course aspiration. That's it. 3040 seconds, roughly, right per person, and then we get started with the with the with the module today. Okay. Hope this makes sense, and you guys can hear me. The transcripts are running well. In case if I fast, if I speak a bit fast, I can slow myself. Feel free to you know stop me there. But yeah, that should be it. Okay, great. So yeah, let's get started. Welcome you all again. So I'm going to call out the names now. I'll quickly introduce myself first. I'm Ansif. I'm based in Toronto. I'm a senior data scientist, mostly hands-on on machine learning and limbs. Right. Recently, I'm working on a chatbot assistant where I applied Limbs Solutions, right? Not only from query optimization, but also on the you know retrieval part as well. So that's where I applied most of the direct-based experience. Okay, I'm almost 15 years old, little older than expected, but all of my relevant experiences into machine learning earlier. Okay, so yeah. With that being said, I am going to call out the names and let's get into intro mode, right? So I'll start with Sim first. Sim, m, can you hear me?

Yes, I can hear you. Hi. Hi. Yes. Um, my my name's Sim. That is short for Samantha. I'm based in Dallas, Fort Worth, Texas. I'm mostly working in the soft software area as a software dev, and my main motivation for joining is because we don't use any AI in the work we do or in general in the office. And I think that's a skill I really want to learn. So I'm just trying to get get more skilled and hopefully move into a space where we're actually making use of AI. Thanks.

Awesome, sir. Thank you so much, Swamsim. Let's move to Ajay.

Hey there. This is Ajay here. I'm from Dallas Fort Worth area. I'm a software developer, 1015 years experience. We started using in our company Devasist Copilot. So I want to learn more, like how does agentification works, and so that I can implement some business solutions in the workplace. Yeah,

awesome. Thank you so much, Ajay. Let's move to Arun. Arun Kumar.

Yeah. Hi, hi everyone. My name is Arun. I'm based in Austin, Texas. Here, so yeah, my main motivation is to learn how to build the AI agents and implement it both in professional world and personal projects as well. I do your side projects as well, and I'm working as a software developer at ServiceNow. So yeah, great to be here. Looking forward to learn. Thank you.

Awesome, thanks, Arun. I think ServiceNow have rolled out agentic ticketing system, right? If not, I can add it. Yeah, that

is correct. Yeah, great,

perfect. So from Arun, let's move to Brian.

Morning, Brian Williams, based in Dallas, Texas. Also, I my background's computer science. Worked in Silicon Valley 20 years, doing mainly software development. 15 years ago, started a leadership development and executive coaching company where we work with Nike, AT and T, Amazon, etc. And a lot of those companies are asking for help on how to minimize token, so their employees aren't token masking. How can they leverage it at a on a greater level? How can they scale it? And so I want to understand it at a deeper level, so I'm able to help my clients.

Perfect, Brian. Thank you so much. Share that. And then let's move to Gorov. Gorov, can you hear us? Gorov, Kurki.

can you hear me?

Yes, Kara, we can hear you now. Perfect.

Sorry about that. Hey, this is Gaurav Karki. I'm also based off of Dallas, Texas. I'm working as a system engineer, focusing on basically cloud and cloud architect. My goal from this class is to learn how to build agentic AI system.

Perfect. Thank you, Gauravs. I think six on six we are from Texas only, right? You're not mistaken. Let's see if we can find someone else from a different location. Perfect. Jai, over to you, Jai Jackson. Jake, can you hear us?

Yes, I can hear you. Sorry, I was trying to get to the unmute button. Well, once again, you received somebody from Dallas, Texas. I actually work with Garoff, so I'm a storage engineer. Have been a storage engineer for about the last 20 years. We do a lot of cloud computing and stuff of that nature. So now we're beginning to incorporate a lot of AI and automatic provisioning and things of that nature. So I'm trying to become a lot more familiar with how to get that done, and some of the prompt engineering, and using the LLMs and things of that nature.

Perfect, awesome, thanks, Ed. Then let's move to Jason. Jason Chang.

Hi, everyone. My name is Jason. I'm in SRE. I'm also from Dallas area. So SRE stands for Site Reliability Engineering. I do focus on a lot of observability solutions, and my team has been really focused on doing AI work and how AI applies to SRE.

Awesome, thank you, Jason. Okay, from Jason, let's move to Jonathan.

Good morning. Based in Starbase, Texas, been a computer systems administrator for 30 years. I build and maintain servers and networks for SpaceX in their Starship test operations platform, supporting the testing and build of Starship systems components. Looking forward to learning more about AI to help improve my effectiveness in understanding critical timing and systems monitoring.

Awesome, sir. Awesome. That's that's a niche domain, right? Like it's her. It's rare that I. I mean, at least in my experience, right? Like hearing someone from working from a space, right? So that's a that's a good one. Awesome, perfect. Welcome again. Then let's move to I think Luke.

Hey, good morning, everyone. This is Luke. I'm from Texas as well. I've been at Dell Technologies, Dell Computer for 24 years. My background is cloud solutions. I'm a solutions engineer. Primarily been working with vSphere Cloud Foundation on top of VX Rail for about the last five years. Have a lot of experience in infrastructure, networking, compute, high-performance computing. I use and have been using AI for basically ever since inception. I've become more interested in learning how to create agents and run these LLMs, so I'm really enjoying the class. I actually been working on the homework the last couple of days for the Apple project, and I've really enjoyed it. Nice to meet you guys.

Perfect. Welcome again, Luke. Great. Then let's move to I think Marcus Marcus Mayfield.

Yes. Good morning. This is Marcus. I'm based in Austin, Texas. I'm a senior business analyst with a state agency, and I'm just looking to learn more about AI and help kind of enable AI usage at our agency and other state agencies since it's still a new technology in the government space. They're not as far as that as some of the private companies.

Awesome, perfect. Thank, Marcus. Let's move to Michael. Hi,

this is Michael. I am in Medina, Tennessee, so I'm the one outboard. I got laid off from Oracle in September last year and have since been unemployed, so I can focus on my education, which is what I try to tell potential employers. I'm trying to slide into a direct AI position, and while I'm working on a master's in artificial intelligence, it's a lot of theory. There's some functional. I came into this program to get the functional skills necessary to move move over, YouTube videos just haven't been cutting it.

Thanks, Michael. Yeah, definitely. This is a little hands-on, so I hope you will definitely know have a very hands-on you know experience for sure. Thanks, thanks, Michael. And then let's move to Nasreen.

Hello, everyone. Good morning. I am from Houston. I have over 15 years of experience in .NET technologies, microservice, cloud computing. I wanted to upgrade my skills in artificial intelligence, so I'm here.

Awesome, Nasreen. Thank you. And then let's move to Robin. Robin Adams.

Yes, I'm Robin Adams, and I'm a retired electrical engineer. Spent my career doing embedded design work for the oil exploration equipment industry, and thought I would see if I could maybe learn how to do some artificial intelligence in the edge computing kind of area, so that's that was my main reason for doing this. And like I said, I'm retired, so I don't have anything other to do than just amuse myself. And this this is quite quite interesting stuff. I mean, it's it's it's quite different than anything I've ever done before.

Perfect, Robin. Now I am. It's been a. It would be interesting, right? To see. Definitely, you know, you'll enjoy. Like I said earlier, it's been like a hands-on. So definitely, you see the magic going on. So for sure. Oh,

did I say I'm? I'm in Houston also.

Yeah, I think you said it already. Okay. Just the one person from Tennessee, I think, for till now who is outside Austin. Perfect. Okay, great. And let's move to I think Scott, right? I'm not mistaken. Yeah, Scott. Hi. Hi.

Good morning. My name is Scott Van Bibber. I live just north of Houston in Spring. I manage an IT team for Texas-based telecom. Been IT for 40 years. We've been using predictive and generative AI for operations, especially around extracting useful information from these massive, massive log files or network equipment it generates. We're also using it for a financial reporting executive team has been really pushing for an agentic tool to prioritize some of these low, you know, these these tasks seem to consume the technicians' time that are really low priority, but they take a lot of time and have some, you know, some of the similar issues that Brian had raised around token token consumption, tokenomics, and things like you know whatever you want to call it. So that's yeah, that's it. Perfect. Nice meeting everybody.

Pleasure meeting you as well. So I am not sure if you could have a Lululemon is actually hiring a Nike. I think senior VP as CTO or CEO. I think, but yeah, it's there's a recent, so we are getting a person from Nike right in September. So good to know that. Great, awesome. Let's move to I think Sim already covered Sim. Just give me a sec. I think Sim already already have introduced right. So then we go to Shiva. Then Shiva Prasad MBR. Shiva, are you there? Can you hear us? Okay, I think Shiva, if you are speaking or not speaking, I can see that. So we'll just give, we'll come back to you for sure. Okay, in case if you are setting up the microphone or something. Then let's let's move to

Udaya. Hey, this is Huday, based on Houston from Texas too. So I got a 50 plus years of experience in software industry. So I'm rightly in support kind of designing for the support, so I just want to understand this agent development so that it helps me to reduce some support efforts in the system. So that's the reason I'm here.

Perfect. Thank you so much, Udaya. Udaya, sorry, and then we'll move to Victor.

Hello, this is Victor Taborda. I am from Medellin, Colombia. I think I am the one to I hold a season and compute engineer, and I worked for the over last 20 years in roles as an IT manager, an IT business partner, and recently as a digital transformation director. My my my objective with this program is to learn about how to implement AI agents because I think is very important for my for my career and to implement this kind of project that I lead is is a pleasure to be here with all of you.

Thank you so much. Let's move to Vinay.

Hi, good morning. I'm Vinay Legi. I'm senior Java developer based in Dallas, Texas. We are using Copilot for the development, but I'm interested in more on agents for our applications.

Perfect. Thank you so much. I think a few of you have joined recently, so we are doing quick crying of production, right? I think I can see Piyush joining in. So, Piyush, if you can just quickly use yourself to everyone here, just your name, your background, your location, and the motivation joining the course. 3035 seconds roughly should be good enough. Piyush, can you hear us? I hope I'm not putting on the spot right. Okay, if you're trying, then I I think we can't hear you up for now. Let me see if I miss anyone here. I think Shiva also. Shiva, are you there? Can you hear us now? Do you try? Do you introduce yourself real quick? Okay, I think there is some issue in there. You maybe can't hear us. Hi,

this is Rakesh Sharma. Can you hear me? Okay.

Yeah, Rakesh. Yeah, go ahead.

So I'm also based in Texas, Austin, Texas. Have extensive background in network and systems architecture, hoping to learn more about generative and agentic AI in this course, and so far looks pretty good. I've gone through subset of the videos. Forward to the course. Thank you.

Perfect. Thank you, Rajesh. Rakesh, sorry. And I think we Nishant have also joined us. Nishant, you want to go ahead?

Hi, this Nishant. I am from Stamford, Connecticut. I have been working for Synchronic Financial. I have been in the credit card space for about 15 years. The primary motivation for you know taking this course is learning agentic AI and see how I can apply primarily for like compliance and you know regulatory purposes.

Perfect. Okay, I think Vinay, we already covered you, right? I just want to make sure I'm not missing anyone here. Perfect. So I think we have two, which are still maybe we can't hear them, or maybe they can't hear us. Shiva, are you there? Want to give it last try before I jump onto our session? Shiva, are you Shiva Prasad? Do you want to give our introduction? Are you there, following us up? Okay, no worries. And then I think last we have is just give it one more try, Piyush. Piyush Kashyap, do you want to give your introduction?

Hi there. My name is Piyush. I'm based out of San Antonio. I work. I work for Nokia as a design architect, designing you know modern five 5g solution for our customers. My main interest in is you know keeping up with the AI growing pace and learning how to apply it towards all the changing environments and you know automating a lot of the stuff that goes on behind behind the scenes, and I'm particularly interested in learning how to use the agents to apply for detecting network faults and you know, kind of automating tracing of this.

Perfect. Thank you so much, Piush. Appreciate it. So we have another person from I think California, San Antonio, if I understand this correctly, right? So my very handful of people from different states, right? From Texas.

Yeah.

Perfect. Okay. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. I think Shiva is there or not? It's okay. Shiva, last last try. If you want to give it just one more shot before going or before getting started. If not, it's okay. Okay, no worries. That's fine, right? So whenever you feel free, just give us a shout out, and you know we can just know yourself if if that's fine as well. Perfect, right? So that's great. So like I said, introduction is great. I'm just okay, Shiva is here. Sorry, my bad. 25 experience outside, so can't. Okay, great. No worries, Shiva. Thank you so much for. I didn't see that chat for some reason, right? Thank you so much again. So yeah, pleasure I bring you again on board. So yeah, let's get into it now. So like I said, how we will set to the class is mostly it's two hours, right? Today we have introduction, that's why it's two and a half hours. But the idea is that we will go through the like we'll do some brainstorming for the first two three minutes, right? Just asking some basic questions from the videos just to get some, you know, attraction across, warm up everyone a bit, right? About the current, you know, concept and the principles we're going to apply. Then, like I said, and we'll be investing around 3540, minutes on a spot quiz here, which you can see, right? And I'll make sure I'll explain these concepts also with some notebooks, some experimental notebooks, or some additional content, right, which would be shared with you post class via Google Share Drive, okay. And like I said, I'm not comfortable in this content with great learning because some of them is my, you know, my own or my personal. So I'm okay with the learners to have it, but not the the great learning part, right? And I just want to reiterate it. I'm a third party here, right? So I'm a contractor. I'm not a entity, Great Learning entity. But that doesn't mean that you can't ask questions to management at all. More than happy to escalate those, right, to the to the authorities here. But like in terms of the evaluation, in terms of the assessments, in terms of the spot quiz, in terms of the content, everything would be owned by Great Learning. So I can definitely have a say, but I don't have the authority to, you know, do an any assessment on that. That would be completely taken care by Great Learning and University of Texas, right? So just just a heads up on that, because it's time. Sometimes it does happen that if you people are under the position that I am the one who's evaluating the the work also, right? That that's not that's not my portfolio here. And yes, coming back onto the basics now. So, like I said, expectation is come prepare to the videos. It's a first session, so everything is being exempted today. But from next week onwards, go through the videos so that at least you know what needs to be covered. And then, like I said, 4045 minutes from the presentation, and then one hour, one hour, 10 minutes. We have a detailed case study where we, whatever we have learned today, we are going to apply it here. Okay, so that should be the crux of the discussion. Any questions you have, anything on those lines, just you know, type it like type it on chat, raise your hand. You can speak up. If I feel like I can answer that question real quick in like 3040, seconds, I will answer it right away. Otherwise, I'll take all the questions in sequential order. Right once we finish our project. Okay, so that should be it. And if you have any any other questions, comments, thoughts, like more than happy. Want to make it very two way, right? Not one way communication. I have to go through some, you know, like some basic protocols here. Like presentation has to be completed. So if you guys know the answer, you think like I am reiterating the same concept. I have to go of the obligation. But like I said, to make it to make things interesting or to keep things engaging, right? I will make sure I'll give you chill pills in between. Okay, like okay, this is how the rack looks like.

This is how the LM looks like. This is how you write the prompts, so that you don't feel bored. Okay, like it becomes sometimes very mundane, right? I just want to make sure there's an element of excitement every throughout, right, the session, so that it becomes engaging both sides. Okay, both ways. Okay, perfect. So no more talking now. Let's come into action. And I think I saw that. Sorry, I mean, sorry. Thank you so much. Yep, motivations development, perfect. Thank you so much again, and let's get into it now. So, first question for you guys: What exactly is a rag? If you have gone through the videos, it's okay otherwise. But like I said, this is a brainstorming, right? So, no correct, no wrong answers. I'm looking for participation so that we can know prep ourselves a bit for the for the session, like why we need rags. The first question for me to you guys,

primarily because the LLMs are kind of in time, right? So rags allow you to not be limited by time, and you can essentially leave the LLM, so to speak, and go find more recent, up-to-date data, information, documentation, etc. to give more relevant feedback.

Perfect. Yeah, Brian, spot on. Relevant feedback. I'll say, have you heard about hallucinations by any chance? So let's take a simple example, right? You want a very dedicated knowledge, like dedicated knowledge source. You have a very dedicated knowledge source. Like I have created a chatbot, right, for Lou Lehman. So we don't want that LM to just give any generic answer. We want very specific vertical focus answers, right? So that's the best part of it, right? Like that's why that's where RAG comes into picture. So what you can do is you can create your knowledge base, right? And you can ask LLM to refer to that knowledge base instead of referring anything in generic, right? Yeah, go ahead, Michael. Please, Michael, raise a you raise your hand. I can go ahead. Yeah, please. Yeah. RAG

is more suited for long-term retrieval of data, so things like policy documents or or other other documents that don't change very often, especially since you're going to you know be using a vector database, trying to reindex, reorganize, and and do that with rapidly changing documents is is not a good performative thing. So, rag is really good for this. is information that is not going to change, or it's going to be like a year or more before it changes. If it's going to change next week, don't don't do this. There's there are other solutions.

Yep, spot on. And I again, yeah, not going to 100% agree on that. But yeah, I do get your point that you want to update. I hope all you are seeing the same thing just the other way around. So like we do, like in our chatbot, right? We know the policy changes. Like let's say we are in. I am in Ontario, right? So let's say a new labor law comes into picture, new policy comes into picture. So we have to update it, right? So rags again are like you can update your knowledge base, fine tune your you know models again, and then you can again see that updated policy next. I mean next moment. So to that point, are rags continuously being updated? I'll say yes, you can do that, of course. Now, the sanctity or the authenticity or the validation that change. How soon will it be adapted? That's again a little, you know, like I'll say gray area because it can be updated real time. But is it available for the response? Well, that depends, right? Like I'll be honest, we have to do some testing to make sure that validation happens, right? But again, there are ways of handling that. Also, like I'll be honest, what we do internally for our chatbot, like let's say that happens in the last, I think, last month or so, there was a new policy OSHA OSHA right standard health safety, you know, policy which has come into picture. Colombia, right? We we have seven different states in Canada, so that change have happened. Now, what our subject matter expert, what our team wanted is like the business team, they wanted us to you know update that specific older document with a new one. So what we did is we dropped that older document from our knowledge base, right? Kept a new document, and then we again created a new vector knowledge source or a database for that, right? And then we made sure that there are no older instances of it as well. So we are testing again. There's a way of checking that also. LM as a judge, we have some KPIs which we are going to talk about not today, but yes, there are some groundedness, some you know relevance, context context matching, some sort of You know, groundedness, your faithfulness, right? All those factors come into picture, and then we gave a heads up that you know what this knowledge base has been updated depending on what cadence you have applied weekly, monthly. But yeah, there is a way of you know making your rag also. I'll say not near real, not real time, but near real time as well. Okay, let's go to that. Let's go to that later, right? Like I said, let's talk about the rag first, and then we'll go into the nitty and gritty of things as well. Perfect, great. So you guys did your homework really well. That makes sense. And again, some of the answers are coming here as well. Yep, makes sense. Need real data. Avoid LM to avoid hallucinations. Very important. I totally agree. LMs can hallucinate, right? But rag at least is a is a guardrail. I'll say, right, which prevents that hallucination to a certain. You want your subject matter or your business knowledge, right? Specific business or specific vertical knowledge to be applied. Okay, so LM don't think anything out of the box. It just have to see the the results from the knowledge base and make a judgment on it instead of thinking anything else. And that's how we restrict the thinking or the as the response capability of LM. Sorry, go ahead. Anyone else question?

I have a question. I have a question. Like so, as I was going through the content basis for a domain-specific knowledge, you would reg is a better suited methodology,

right?

So my question is: What if I download a kind of an open source model, right, in my in my enterprise, and then retrain the model or kind of fine tune the model with domain specific documents or data itself, and then then make that model used for my purpose is that something a viable option or would that lead to some kind of issues for me if I want

so fine tuning a model I won't say it's not it's like something a big no but ideally speaking if you talk about Llama or any you know any good performing models like like Llama Mistral 7b right 13 B they are very very 13 B 13 billion parameters so they are very heavy to train on so like these models have been trained on think of it like millions needs millions of compute capability right so I'm not saying it's not viable maybe but from a simple enterprise version that's it's not cost effective right maybe a company and scale of millions of GPUs who are working on daily cadence, like say Meta or you know Google, who are getting LM, they can find you know maybe if you have a right cost infrastructure to it. That's why RAG is a I'll say a Swiss knife where what you can do you can keep the LM model same. We don't have to find you any LM model. You just get a knowledge base. Okay, do the query, pass the query to that knowledge base, get the relevant documents or chunks, and then give those documents. Because now ILM only have to focus on those top five, top 10 queries and give you the best response to it. So that way you don't have to fine tune the model. At the same time, you have visibility on the knowledge, you know, I'll say knowledge content also. Right at the same time, you can control and slice and dice that. Does that make sense? Let me know if not.

Thank you

so much. Perfect. Yeah. Oh yeah. Let's go on now. Let's play some spot base real quick. Thanks again. This is very insightful and informative. Right. Really happy with the so we have so many good strong contenders here. Let's go on there. So, so this is what we're going to see today, right? What is rag? What is prompt engineering? And like I said, to make things interesting, I'm going to show you some simple notebooks which you guys can trial and test later post class, right? Just to keep it engaging, like what prompts we write and what outputs you get? What different models I have tried on? Right, like maybe it's very simple, but maybe effective at this point of time. Right, we'll talk about building blocks, fundamentals about RAG, what is chunking, and search. Right, if you're using that database, we do semantic search. So we'll talk on on those lines also, right? And then we will see some examples as well.

One question: These notebooks we are going to cover is going to make it downloadable. You know, yes.

So this will look something like this. Sorry about this. This will be a link. I can share you right away if you want. That's fine as well. Just give me a sec. Something is. Yeah, that will be downloadable, right? So if you see here, week one. This is already public. Like there is other bats going on, right, with me. So I can just copy the link, and this would be downloadable. So you can download it. Don't circulate it. Keep it to yourself. But yeah, definitely you can have a look here, right? So this is a link, right? So every after every session, I'll make sure that this session this is available to you, right? What I'm talking is what you have at the end, Dave. Okay, after the session.

Okay, thank you. Perfect.

No worries. Yeah. Okay, let's go on then. But maybe I'll say two to break the queue, right? Because for June I am week three. This is week one, so I'll create a separate folder. That's fine. Not a problem. Okay, just making sure that you have the relevant content also. Okay, let's keep on going. Yeah. So first question to you guys. I see some chunking also there. I'm going to come on that. Okay, but let's keep the momentum going at least for now, and then we'll take that you know comment also. What does constraint output refers, right, in the context of prompt engineering? Constraint, right? So understood. from limiting allowable model responses, model training without any guidelines, enhance model creativity. I think you know the answer, right? There's no brainer in this. Yep, no brainer for sure. Makes sense. Limitable model response, right? Like this is very important. I'll give you one scenario, right? Like when we created a chatbot, right? Someone asking a question: Can you give me my SIN number or this employee's personal details, like where the person resides, what's the address? Now, chatbots onto those, right? That's like a clear-cut personal inform (PII) violation, right? Everyone knows that should not be an issue, right? So how can you make sure that the output is constrained? Okay, now this is a different language which they are talking about. I am giving you a little bit more industry standards, right? So whenever the response gets generated from LLM, we always have some sort of you know guardrails that ensures that if someone is asking any personal information, the agent has to say, "I'm not. I don't have the authority to respond. So it should complete the response. In case if it's giving any PII information, PII as in personal information identifier, right? Any sort of information which is not, which is sensitive and should not be shared, right, with the with the with the user. Okay, so that's important. That's constrained output. Again, there are different definitions of constrained outputs. In this case, it can be conceptual. Some constraint outputs can be PII, which is which I just give an example for, right? So different outputs which can be constrained in different context. But most important is that you want the model response to be limited to an allowable, right? Like some sort of sanity check had to be applied right before the response gets rolled out to the user or to the end user. Okay, so here it is. Now this looks a very high level, so I'll try to break it down into relevant portions here, right? So prompt engineering is what exactly is a prompt engineering, right? Like you are giving a set of instructions or some sort of you know, I'll say actions or I'll say commands, right? Comments LM so that it can perform a task, right? Meaning means that iteratively deriving a specific forms of the task, right? So it becomes better on the task what you want to accomplish. So there are two elements here, right? If you carefully observe, on the left hand side you have all the LM model parameters, hyperparameters, right? Maximum tokens, temperature, top P, frequency penalty, right? I'll come onto those definition of all these separately, but just hear me loud for now, okay? So this is all the modeling parameters. How can you change the behavior of the model with set of hyperparameters? On the right-hand side is your prompt or structure. That's where you write the instructions. Okay, like assume you are a AI assistant or assume you are X Y Z. Your role is to do analysis and generate a code, a SQL query code. I'm just making it up for the second mention, right? But you write a sort of you know commands or some sort of you know instructions there. So that's like a prompt technically. Now they can be one-off prompt and they can be usable template, right? So if you go into the deep of like into depth of prop engine, right? There are certain frameworks, right? If you are going to use Lang, you're going to use LangChain or Lang graph, so these are nothing but the libraries which where you can write your prompts or you can create agents. Okay, so if you see here, there's something known as reusable template. Okay, so some templates have been defined for you.

Okay, like you have prompts also. We have multiple categories: one-shot prompt, few-shot prompts, right chain of thought prompts, like different different prompts, of course. But the idea is that which one do you want to use, and you don't want to reinvent the wheel, right? You already have a function defined. Reusable template means the that template or the syntax is already defined. You just have to override it with your personal, you know, or I'll say with your own code base, or let's say instructions in there, but think on those lines that one of prompts can be like a customized prompt you want to create, okay, and usable something which which you can use. We can just import it as a Python you know function and then pass the instructions in there, right? More to come on this. Like I said, I'll keep it high level for now, and to give an example, right? I just take a pause, like I said, and that's why I'll keep it interest. I'll make sure the session is interesting, right? So if I go back, right here to the prompt, not the prompt engineering, basic here you can find different type of styles, right? Like what different style thought about chain of thought, or my chain of thought, right? This you can go through again. That's not in scopes. Bit short for now, but one thing I want to share here is this is how we define a prompt, right? Like let's say I want to use a model, LM model, Felcon Seven Beans product. I'm using Hugging Face. I hope you guys are a bit of Hugging Face or not. If not, it's okay. It's like a Bible of all the LM AI models that you can think of. So I strongly urge you to create a doc to create a count here, right? Because what we will do is again not in gate learning, but if you're doing exploration, right? If you're learning LLMs, Hugging Face is the best open source library, right? Or you should use because you can get all the models here, right? You can see sky is the limit, right? They're also coming up with MCP server and whatnot, but let's say you know you want to use any BERT model like this is what I have used in Walmart, Facebook BERT, right? So like any model which you can think of, it will be available here, right? Let me see here quickly. Yeah, Bistel BERT, NER, Lingual, right? You want to use Llama as LLM model, right? So you have a you know which you can think of. Okay, so the best part is all the models that gets updated, they are here. Think of like a wiki or like a GitHub, right? GitHub, GitHub of all the LM models is is it's here. Okay, so it's good to go there, get get your profile created, all free. Nothing comes with the cost, right? You can create some tokens also because to access some models, you need access tokens. Okay, it's very easy. Just go there, and it will ask for your password. Create a username password. Go there, and you can create a token out of it. Okay, so the idea is that again, and for some of the experiments I am doing, I'll be using extensively Hugging Face. So you may see, you may have to create some tokens to access some models. Okay, but it's completely free, by the way. Like I said earlier. Okay, so let's see an example here. Okay, real quick. So I'm using a Falcon 7B simple ALM model, right? I'm generate. I'm saying generate me a text. Okay, so I'm just this is using a CUDA like GPUs, right? Because these are heavy models, so it needs GPU, right, to hold these models, right? And then what I'm saying, you know what? I'm just writing a one prompt here. You can see one one of prompt. Classify the text into neutral, negative, or positive. Explain the reasoning behind your answer. Okay, and this is the text I'm passing. Text colon movies are maybe one of my favorite. And then I'm asking, what's the sentiment colon, and it will fill the sentiment for me, right? So that you can see since the text is movie is definitely one of my favorite on-risk kinds, interaction, respectable, morally strong characters, whatnot, right? So that's of course positive.

Just explains the reasoning behind it, like why it says why it thinks it's a positive sentiment. Okay, this is one example, like how we can create one-off prompt, create a use LM model. Make sure you have a Hugging Face token because you may need this. Okay, once you get a login there, again out of scope, not relevant for the project today, but maybe relevant for your experiments. Right. So I'll. So again, I urge every one of you to get into that habit. Right. Like creating new, like experimenting out new model. Give some prompts, see what's going on, right? Similarly, you can do for sentiment analysis, which is a very classic "Hello World, right? Sort of problem. Then you can also say, okay, give me the entities in the text, right? Golden State Warriors, American professional basketball team, so you can see Golden State Warriors, San Francisco, right? You want to trans do some translation, translate this into Italian or French, whichever language you're comfortable with, right? You give the text, and we give you the sponsor. Okay, so this is one way. Like you can see here, like you're writing a previous responses from the LM. Okay, that's like prompt, simple prompting, right? Okay, I'll put. I'll stop here now. Like I said, I'll just give you some chill plus in between to make sure not bore up, right? I'm going to talk about these parameters also, right? But this is coming in your project, so maybe investing extra time here doesn't add any value. So when we go to that stage, I'll explain this to you. Maybe I can quickly go here over, right? Like maximum tokens. Now we all know LLMs. How these, like how these companies like OpenAI, you know, Claude, let's say, you know how they are charging. We all know, we all know tokens, right? The more tokens you ask for, the more generation, the more cost you have to pay, right? So you can set up okay, how many tokens you want in response? Maximum tokens that can include the question also sometimes, right? Like I, I maximum what 500 tokens in the output, so we can set that up, right? Now temperature, what does that mean? Okay, temperature means the focus or the specificity of the response. Like I'm asking, what is my name? Can be only Anja Saksina, right? Nothing else. You can't tell stories about this, right? It has to be specific. So when you want your response to be very specific in nature, right? You you keep your temperature value as low as possible, like close to zero, maybe. Okay, so that's where specificity versus genericity come into picture. Let's take a separate example. Let's say you are a novelist, okay, and you want to extend a query, right? Beautify it a bit right create more context around it. So maybe if you want active sort of bot right, you had to increase the temperature value from zero to something like close to one. It has a range from zero to one, but the more closer towards this one, the more randomness you will see in the response. Okay, so in terms of application where you want an interactive bot like Gemini or ChatGPT, right? Maybe you will keep a temperature value higher, but the odds of this is that this may invite some sort of randomness. Okay, so you may feel like expecting it, right? So again, depending on what side of the spectrum you are in, like when we designed stat bot, we kept the temperature value to be as low as possible because we want a specific question to be answered. That's it. We don't want a conversational bot. But if you want a conversational bot, then maybe you want to have a higher temperature. Okay. Now top p again one example. Like top p is like how many think on those lines, right? Like when you're getting the response, how much the words which are going to get in the response, how like the distribution, how popular they are. Like you want don't want to give any words which are very low, you know, in terms of the distribution. Okay, like you want those words which are frequently occurring words, not noise at the same time, of course, but relevant, right?

And they have a higher distribution in the corpus also, so it will make sure top P is around 90 95% So it will give diverse, more contextually rich words to that question. Okay. Finally, frequency penalty. You want you don't want to repeat multiple times, right? Like one term is talking about X Y Z, so you don't want that term to be repeated multiple times. So you apply frequency penalty. I don't want very frequent terms into my you know response also. So again, these nitty and gritty of things definitely will cover more. But if you understand these from a from a holistic sense, that what this is what it means, it should be easy to fine tune those. I'm not sure if we'll be doing this here, to be honest, maybe we'll be using GPT 4o Mini, right? So maybe we we will tweak these parameters a bit, okay? And it's important to the the whole crux of these parameters, okay? So I'll go more, and I'll definitely once we go to that project mode, I'll explain this mode, okay? Perfect. Let's move on. Keep on going then. Now, what the the next slide we're talking about is the significance. You can write anything, right? To be honest, in the prompt, it will read and it will try to generate some response. LLM. That's what it is meant for, right? But there is a science behind it. Like, what sort of think on? Like, what are the guidelines that you write a prompt, right? So here you can see this is talking about a blog writing about the benefits of meditation, right? For mental health, targeting a beginner audience and optimized for SEO. So you are actually letting know, letting this, letting LM know what needs to be done. Okay. Who? What is the target audience? What's the intent of it? What's the objective? Okay, so these things have to be clearly nailed down in your prompts. Okay, so from a design think from a design, what should be the ideal prompt? Okay, what should be the ideal characteristics of this? Okay, so first thing you can see is the control model behavior, right? That's what constrained output means, right? Like here in this example, we are just making sure that we are we are targeting beginner audience. You can see concerned outputs, right? And it should only focus on SEO, mental health, meditation, right? So you also want to make sure the control, the model behavior is control, right? It's not it's not again very much, you know. I'll say space, right? So it will just make sure that specifying the topic, the target, or the automation criteria will help you to get the best response you can ask for. Okay, higher quality response. The prompt provide context and specify the tone. That's understand the task and hence generate a high, generate a very high quality response. In simple terms, what it means is like if you want a high call, output quality, your prompts should be very much vertical specific, and that's where we need help from retail experts also. Right, so we are having some query optimization prompts. So what it is sometimes we realize the queries are too much vague, right? Like a given example, we designed this for one of our distribution centers on Columbus, Ohio. Right, the idea was someone is asking a question: Can I wear a shoe? Now that shoe can be, you know, like when you're going to distribution center, right? There are some safety boots which you have to wear. You're not supposed to wear shoes, right? Now we are not sure. We're talking about a rubber shoe or a you know or a issue, so that becomes again very much you know like query sometimes can also be ambiguous, right? Very very open ended. So how can we make sure we give a response? So to make sure that you know it happens, we the prompt that query optimization is very important. So we write a prompt that if the query is loosely ended, follow up with the user again to make sure, like, what to narrowify to crystal clear the query, right, or to filter the query to a specific extent. Like, are you asking about a rubber shoe or a boot? To give a better response instead of just responding it blindly, right?

But it's any vague, you know, or I'll say very loosely ended response. Okay, so again, these are some of the ways where you the prompts are highly valuable, and of course automation, right? So no second thoughts on this. Like we use LM, I'll say prompts to automate certain operations, right? Now since you're talking about agentic AI, okay, so definitely think on those think on those lines, if you're creating a chat bot, one bot will get the data. The agent will work on the query side. The third agent will get the responses from your rag. The fourth agent will do the evaluation on the response or the quality of the response within the entity. So, of course, we were automating all the operations together, right? But the the task is that yes, the prompts should handle those, you know, things gracefully. And if there are any errors, it should be highlighted at the first front, at the forefront. Okay, so I stop here again. Like I said, it is a little theoretical. So I'll definitely take, you know, like I said, some examples in between today. Yeah, that's the cromly gene ring. So there is a, I think there is a, I don't have it handy for now, but there are some guidelines, right? Like where you can proto engineering. Maybe I have shared this with my previous batch, so I'll definitely you know share some documents with you where it talks about some of the you know principles. Like here in this module, you can see one what different prompts you have, right? Like zero shot, few shots, or consistency. But at the same time, there are also some prompts. You know, depending on like hand. So when do you apply chain of thought? When you apply rag? When do you apply cognitive computing? Right? Something on those lines as well. Okay, so I will definitely find it out for you and share that also. Okay, let's move on then. Let's go to the second thing. Next thing here. Now this is a rag quiz. So this is talking about the sequence. Okay, when you're creating a rag model, what sequence of blocks for processing data you follow? Okay, do you create the embedding first? Weta database data chunking retrieval chunks first. Do the embedding, pass it to a database, retrieve it, and then give it to LLM. Create a better database first, then they give a data chunk. Let's see what you guys are thinking. I know you know the answer already, but trying to see here one more time. Yep, spot on. So, so you first give it a chunk, right? Let's say you have a PDF, or let's say you have a docx, right? So you add a parsing to get all the data into a chunk format, right? And then you create embeddings from it. So what is embedding? Vectorizing your text because machine don't understand text. You have to convert it to a vector, right? So that's like classic embedding example, right? We have tons of models we can use embedding models, right? I think we'll be using OpenAI embedding model here. But if you again want to explore, I have a notebook, so I'm going to share this with you. But first, let's understand the sequence. Right, you first create that junk, then you have the embeddings, then store those embeddings into a database. Right, and then you write a retriever. Right, retrieve, convert to embedding, see which documents have the closest, you know, similarity score, and then pass on those chunks to LLM, and the LLM will use that context as a context and give you the output. So that's how the overflow looks like for Rack. Okay, so here is a block diagram. Now, what I will do is just to keep it little more interesting, right? I know this looks again very high level, although it's understandable. But still, what I'll do is I'll just open one more notebook here, right, which I have for you guys. Okay, the rag basic example. Okay, so some of the elements here may not be may not be present in that because I am mostly in that notebook. I'll be covering this element here. These are these many elements, like embeddings, meta database retrieve, augment LM. Right. This you can think of more on the data parsing and data creation side. Right.

So this again, I wouldn't say it's not quite advisable. It is definitely, but I'll be starting that notebook from here. Right. From the embedding, from the so there won't be like I'm not taking a a document and passing it because that would always be happening in your project. Okay, I want to explain this thing to you on the right hand side, which talks about what is the database, how do you retrieve, how to get the chunks, how to get that context to the element, and then what output you get. Okay, so this element I'm going to cover here. So stay tuned. Now let's talk about this first high level. Okay, so let's say you have a lot of PDF documents. Okay, txt dot doc talkx txt documents. So you load it in database. Let's say right or any vector, any Google Store bucket, S3. You guys are all cloud experts. You know more than me, right? Like where you can keep the data, right? As a store, and then what you do completely after loading, right? You create chunks. You transform the data into chunks. So think of it this way: I have a 4000, let's say 4000 page PDF, and I'm going to create chunks. Like those chunks can be 512, you know, words or tokens each, so like breaking a big two small small chunks or small boxes. Okay, that's what we are doing here. Then we embed it. Embedding means you are converting that text in okay like a numeric representation. Okay, because like I said again, machines don't understand text; they only understand numbers. We have to convert into a vectorized format. Okay, and then when you convert this into a vector representation, you pass it to a vector database. You can see here, right? Saving it here, and then from there, okay. Once you store in a vector database, and now this is where the first data population is complete. Knowledge knowledge source creation is complete. Now let's say a user comes in and pass a query. Okay, so you will convert that query into an embedding because again think on those lines. Text can't be understand by machine, right? Has to convert to an embedding vector. So convert that query into embedding, and then what we do is we pass this query into embedding and get the relevant chunks, okay, from this vector database based on the query. Okay, and then we augment those embeddings into text chunks, and then we pass the query and the chunks together into a rack, and then pass it to LLM. That based on the query, these are the top five or top 10 relevant chunks. Now give me the answer from these chunks only. Don't apply your brain. Apply your brain only on those chunks which I have extracted from the wet database. And once it understands it, then it will respond it. Okay. Now I know this looks a little complicated, so I simplify this for you. For some of you, of course, like I know most of you must have gone it, but that's okay, right? So here it is. I want to quickly show you up what libraries I'm using here. This again will be used right in your project also. So here it is, right? Like I'm using a transformer to convert into your into you know embeddings. I'm using a simple transformer library. FAI SS is your Facebook AI semantic search, which is a web database. I think we are using Chroma DB. So think of it like different databases are available, right? You can use it. You can use you use MySQL versus MS SQL, right? Doesn't matter, right? See, it's just a different variation there. Doing the same thing, ideally, right? So here are documents. So documents means think of it like I have already extracted the text, okay? And I have these as my sentences available. Okay, or think of like a chunk for the simple for the psychosimplicity. Okay, so I have four documents here, four chunks. Meditation reduces stress anxiety. Regular meditation improves concentration. Excise beneficial. Meditation also promotes also promotes emotional health. Now, what I am doing in the second step is I am embedding these documents, so converting this into vector. So I'm using mini LML 632 from I think again. So this gets catered into embeddings. Okay. Third thing is once again going back to the diagram.

So I want to make sure don't miss any loop here. So once we convert this into embeddings, right? Then what we are doing, we kind of we are dumping into a vector database, right? So here, as you can see, I am taking all those embeddings, creating a FAISS vector database, and adding all the embeddings there. Okay, so here in step three, you add all your document embeddings to a vector database. Okay, then you ask a question now. Let's say a user is asking a query here. What benefits does myitation have? Back again to the architecture. This is my this is me sitting asking a query, right? This is my query. What benefits does mydation have? And now what I will do is I'll convert into again vector embeddings, right? Vectorization or embedding. Let's say query embedding, right? So again, this gets converted into embedding. Now, do I my index will search based on the query, give me top two documents. Okay, that's what it is doing here. So index dot search, take the query embedding and give me top two relevant chunks related to this query. Okay, so now going back here, you can see this chunk gets retrieved. Context is nothing but your query. Okay, I know this looks a little confusing, so don't log there. It's just like think of it like based on a query. Give me the top relevant chunks, most similar chunks. Okay, so this you get here. You get all the document, all the relevant, you know, chunks or documents here. So now you can run this. This is all client tested, by the way, right? So I get these two top documents: meditation helps reduce stress and anxiety. Meditation promotes emotional health. So these are the top two relevant chunks with respect to the queries. Okay, so here the vector database search and everything is being done. Okay, now comes the interesting part. So I have just covered this element, like how can you use a vector search as a simple query space engine. Okay, so this covered. Okay, this portion. Now what I'll do is in the next block. I'm going to explain you how we can append a query with this chunks, with these chunks what I have been retrieved, and I'm going to augment it. Augment means I'm going to put them, okay, and pass it to LLM. And I'll say LLM, this is a query, and these are the top chunks. Can you give me a response now? So here it will apply its reasoning capability. Okay, don't get anything outside of this box. You have to focus only on these chunks. Don't don't invent anything extra from it. Just focus on these chunks, and be the best response. So that's how we are making sure the rack only thinks or only sees these as a document, nothing else. Let's go back. Oh, sorry, I should have cleaned this up. Give me a sec. I'm not a Zoom guy, so please don't mind. Now let's going back again. Okay, so here you can see all the distance metrics and all tests for your standing. Now again, I am repeating the same step. Now here I am using Mistral 7b model, LM model, okay, and repeating the same steps. The only thing now, what I am adding here, if you see carefully, is I am adding the context, okay, all the documents which all chunks, whatever you want to say, documents chunks, same thing in this example, and now I am saying I am adding a prompt saying answer the question based on the context below. So this is the context, all the relevant chunks, and the query, the question the user have asked. So I'm passing question and the context together. That's what I'm augmenting. Okay, concatenating them together. Now I pass on this prompt to this model. What I have right, mr. 7b, I get some outputs. I print the response. Okay, so this this is the context. Now this is the final response you get from LLM. So the question was, what are benefits of meditation? LM says the benefits of meditation include receiving anxiety as well as promoting emotional health.

So it has take those two documents, read it through, try to find, try to get a reasoning, and then give a final response. So this is the final output from a rag. Okay, so yeah, so you can see it, right? Whatever context is generated, it's coming from those chunks, from those relevant chunks. That's important to understand. How you can see rag. Just make sure that whatever knowledge, documents, policies, whatever you want to say, has there, it just picks it from me. Yeah, go ahead, Michael, please. I

just wanted to ask. I know this is a demo slash example, but what if you need something a little more verbose in your answer is it something you control through the through the prompt? What exactly? How how exactly do you get more than one sentence? If you if you need more than one sentence,

if you say if you need more than one sentence, so you can actually set up those hyperparameters, right? Like maximum tokens. That's what we talked about, right? Are we talking more from a from a extraction point of view, or like there are multiple ways you can change this gears, right? Like, like here it's sorry. I need it to

be so

you can increase the maximum tokens, right? That's what I'm saying. Like again, this these are very small documents, but like I said, if this goes back to the doc to the model parameters, right? Which you talked about this one, like you can you said the increase the maximum tokens, right? This these all those token parameters can come from the model itself. Like you can increase the tokens to let's say 200, so maybe it will try to fill in more words there. Okay, or there's other way of looking into it as well. Like if you don't want to focus on focus on the validation, whether this response looks perfect or not, right? So there are some other techniques also. LMSA judge, which can evaluate the performance and then it can say pass or fail. So the response is failed, and you know maybe it will say you know apply again. So again, there are ways of looking at it. But yes, to simple for the simpler things, I'll say you can just focus on the model parameters, right, and make the changes there. Okay, perfect, right? So hope this makes sense. Like I said, the intention was to give you a little bit more. Give you a simple hello world, like I said. I know this can go definitely go well better than this, but like in terms of the explainer, like in terms of the content, right? Like I've just taken five, four sentences there. You can increase a sentence. That's fine as well, right? But the idea is to see how it works. Okay. Now this can work for million of documents also at the same time, but the concept, the principle, the fundamental is same, right? That's how the augmentation works.

So I have one question. Like I think in one in the pre-recorded videos, example they show is going through a SEC filing, basically thank you, and they go through the MDN attention. This something actually I do for my work as well, and my question is like, what if I want to put data like the tables in those filings, right, rather than the plain text? Is there a way to to use that data and put it into the categories?

Yeah, we have a PDF plumber. I have a library, so again, I got your point. Totally makes sense. The idea is that what you can do is you can parse tables, and those tables can like those table data can also go with the text. But again, to your point, that will still be a text, but you won't see the borders there. So it will go. I got your point coming from. Or maybe you want to use the tables right as a chunk as a relevant chunk.

If you use paper, you know it retains a certain format. Like it says, okay, your revenue for 2025 was 2026. So there is a structure which also gives you informative the numbers itself, right? So if I flatten the table in simple text, you know I lose that kind of formatting. That

not really. That's what I'm saying. That's not true entirely. I tried this a lot. Okay, I'm bet on it. PDF plumber is what I have tried. Right, there are other libraries also. But to your point, that that specific not the font but the size won't change. That will still same. Yeah, yeah. No worries. That's fine. Yeah.

One more

quick question: the data sources, at least in this example, just showing as a set of documents. But if you have multiple data or types of data, for example, public sources on from internet search and all data vendings and you know get it into vector database

do two yeah it'll be the same right so what you can do is protocol based on the I got your point so yes if if you have let's say web like web sources, right? Like say a web API endpoint, JSON point, or something on those lines, right? That's also possible. So the thing is that what you have to do is you have to query like let's say different data sources, like let's say databases thing, like five significant sources. So what you can do is you can go there, store it, you know, in a like as a JSON or whatever it is, and then you can pass that JSON right convert into you know format like a text format. That's possible, right? To be honest, so that's not a big deal. It's just like maybe if you have if you don't yes, right? As long as you can convert data, and you can convert the data into a, I say, a data frame, right? You can use anything. I mean, let me know if you have any follow-up on that, right? You know, discuss this post chat because, like I said, this needs more background context, right? So, what we sources is we go to let's say Azure Data Blob or let's say S3 bucket right where we have the JSON file we convert into a Pandora data frame or a PySpark frame and then we typically you know pass that text blob and convert into a flat file and to right or we can use that as a text blob and create chunks out of it. That's what we mostly do. Okay.

Okay.

Yeah. No. Yes. Go ahead. I just this should be last. Yeah. Please.

Yeah. Um. So if I were to launch this like live chat chatbots, the user asks a question. Is it going to create a chunks from all the sources, or do you do that process?

No, no, no. You just get no. Just get your knowledge base once. That's it. Okay, and then you will pass the query. Knowledge base is already created once. Think of it like a one-time activity. Multiple users can ask a question. It will think of like a database only, right? You create a that's right. You update that table weekly, monthly, different story depending on. But but no, won't do for every query. It will just like I persist the knowledge base, create the knowledge base, and then no space. Okay, great guys. So this next question. So if you have anything, please feel free and type it on chat. Okay, I'm sorry. I know this is very nice. I appreciate your curiosity. Not speaking at all, to be honest, but making sure that you know we complete. So is online. Okay, so making time more than happy to leave those questions there. Right, post. Okay, using overlap in the rack system impact retrieval. How do you think that increasing chunk overlap will impact? I hope you see right like small text blocks. Number of chunks improve efficiency, increase urgency, but continuity context. Need for chunking where the options are really doesn't make sense, right? B up increasing the chunk of overlap, right? Nancy but helps maintain continuity. Now try to think on those lines, right? I think having a symbol, very good example already. I think one of the gentlemen here, where he asked about the tables, right? So I want to maintain. I want to make sure that the discussion what we are having is continuing. Okay, I can give an example. I'm working in X Y Z based on A B C location, right? Full stop. Let's say Matt Messi, big fan of Spain, right? And ABC, whatever it is, right? So now he just person, right? Techniques apply so that when it retrieves, it knows the surrounding information. Okay, thing on those lines. Six does get lost in between. That's why we perform having increasing overlap chunk, but it should not be pretty much overlapping because if you have little complications as well. So there's a balance rate of between chunk overlap and the chunk size. But ideally speaking, yes, and to make that happen is overlap, so that LM knows you're talking about this chunk at this point. Okay, so that okay, so make. I think most of you know it now. So let's understand now again from a theory point of view. Next cost small chunks, right? They are indexed. I'm pretty much sure if you explore this notebook, right, and you ask Gemini to create code for you, okay. But when we explore the the knowledge base, right, the vector database here, FAISS, it has a metadata also stored. It tells you which chunk has what sort of ID, so you can go through that metadata and extract that. To be honest, so it will give you all the information. Was the title was the source ID there, right? I think we will meme print it there. If not, but yes, you can get the metadata information. So that's it's very handy because you know which chunk you're talking about. So in your you can but for that document with the title, with other fees, right? Time stamp, whatnot. But it's important, right? That go to all the metadata points. Okay. Now this is a golden standard. Again, I'm not going to say it's perfect, but number of tokens as like a standard. Okay. You can increase and slice increase perfectly fine, but I'll be honest. Like industry standard is around 56,024. So if we're talking about huge chunks, right? Like let's talk about biological domain, right? Biomedical domain, something on the line. Maybe you want like 256 chunk, right? I know they are heavy documents, but then each topic is important, right? From a from a research, so maybe on the second lines, let's say if you want looking again a literature, you can have a bigger chunk. Doesn't matter, right? 124 tokens, sorry, my bad, and the overlap, right? 16 number of tokens which are being overlapped here. It can be 32, it can be four. Again, depend how you, but ideally these are the standards, right? 1632, and 512,024. That's what we mostly follow. Okay, so the trade-off here, if you overlap, right, and see will definitely be that you have and other side.

If you want to have to maintain the context remembrance, I'll say right in this case, it has to be expressed. So I still say 1632 is a good number, right? Like having a lot of overlap can also slow down the process. Okay, even the quality of the conversation. So you have sums of like two tokens should be good enough. Okay, then create headaches for our data. Why do we need to create embeddings for our data in a rack system? Like why? What is searching? Enable semantic search amount reduction of store data. Sorry, I have to have a little sore throat. So let's finish this up and then take a quick break. Go ahead. Yeah. See here. I hope you guys better. It is popular because we do semantic search, right? Contextual search, search. That's why they are so popular. Okay. So one example again here. Reading notebooks at night is relaxing. Good novel before bed is a great habit. So you can see they have a higher language score. Cat jumped over the fence. Whether it's cold today, they are in a traditional bed space. That's the whole intent. Things are good to capture the contextual similarity, right? If I'm talking about football, I'm talking about Miss, I'm talking about what you can talk about Ronaldo. They are all related to each other, although they are key. They don't. They didn't have the same key words related to each other. That's why cementing headings are Okay, so that's why they are so pop, so powerful, and so popular that they right. It's not a keywords or ETFDM. Okay, so now the last question I process should be so. Yep, almost. So how does your rag enhance the capability of LLM, right? Limiting access to external knowledge, so integrating access to provide model size. You know the answer, right? Yeah, everyone knows. C makes sense. We have seen that, right? So even we are going to do is today we are going to revisit document right, which would be I think 17 page long or 16 page long. Then make our capital specific right through external knowledge source right. So we are going to address then generic responses. Okay, so it is wonderful. How many courses NVIDIA GeForce RTX? Let's say it got just released yesterday, right? You don't know. It has no idea, but let's say you are in NVIDIA, you are creating your own train it, keep it, create the chunks, create a knowledge base out of it, and it will tell you like what specification does it have, right? And that's all I have. Okay, great. So we are on running on time. Slightly, I'll say. So not the background. We can take a quick break. Come back. This is the first project for us. Okay. Like I can go. I will run the notebook first. Right. But at the same time, I also have a presentation which I'm going to open now. Okay, just give me a minute. I want to make perhaps presentation with me. Let me download this up real quick. Medical rag and once this guy download, let me pick up here. It's a doc X. Oh come on. Okay, no, I have it here. Let me open this. Right here, you see right. So this is what we are going to cover. I can go through the notebook, of course, but I can run it, right? So from a high level understanding, what we are doing, this should be good enough, right? Talk about some background and back and forth, okay. Like three slides there, two slides in the notebooks to make sure we are connecting. You can see about LLM powered medical assistant. Okay, I don't know why saying, but yes, we are using DB as our database, right? This is a PDF document, Apple PDF document. Some sort of parsing, also, right? We are going to use Racket. Now we are also going to use OpenAI GPT, right? This would be our LM model, GPT 4o Mini, okay? We'll use Big functionalities so that we can use them instead of reinventing the wheel again. Okay, okay. Let's clear real quick the business problem. Like all of them, we'll go in bits and pieces. This portion here, and then to the notebook. I hope they make me know if not like this approach.

Going to the background presentation, and then seeing that in the notebook, so that we can create the dots well. Okay, right. Okay, so here it is. Right, this is a business problem here. Business context, professional. Loaded with information overload, right? They have to go through 1000s of research papers when they are doing paper. They have to see manually what this you know disease is. Have to get some background, and then based on it, they have to change the the treatment, right? Very labor. I mean, very manual labor itself, right? Hours on that, correct? So time and sensitive decision does require some random variable. If someone has concussions, right? Like some very urgent, right? It needs a ready decision to look at that. The system which can be instant response. This is what needs to be done to save the patient life, right? Something on those lines, correct? Guidelines, okay, and that maintaining high chance of we are talking about. also, so some of the batches are taking Apple, you know, presentation. Okay, so my other story is that yes, based on the emergency, based on the criticality or the situation, the problem, we make sure the healthcare profession has instant success, right? So we are creating a knowledge base, which would be I think 4000 pages. To be honest, right, first year knowledge base out of like database, and then passing the queries, getting responses from it. Right, so we'll be doing three stages here. The first stage would be just asking your any knowledge base, okay. Second, what we will do is we will again do the same exercise, but we will write some prompts. So first will be without prompts, just a simple query. Second will be with prompts, but again it won't be a. It will be still be a design would be plus prompt together. Okay, we are we are going to try today. Okay, different part. So again, this is again just the background. Like I said earlier, 4000 plus pages. We have 23 special medical sections, four clinical query types. Two based answers. okay, because we all know generic LMS can hallucinate this domain-specific context protocol. So we are going to make a very subject matter expert or vertical-specific knowledge base or vector database. Okay, so is the objective here? We are taking a wide-friendly. We are technical authority. This has been published in 1899. This has 23 special sections, including neurology, dermatology, surgery, and more. Pages of PDF, right? And this has been published by Morgan Company. Okay. So, like I said earlier, I'm going to talk about this now. But let's take a. You guys, are you guys okay? Come back. Yeah, just make sure we'll connect all really well as well. So, yeah, I open the notebook, which is the notebook that we have. So let me reconnect this. Okay, so before guys, before I guys let you go for the break, just to what ways we need, right? So we need launching. Like a link chain is like a sequence of agents you can connect together, right? We're not making any agents today. It's like just a rag system today. But we need and have a special sequence. Like you don't need any, you know, any feedback loop or any conditional based execution, right? Just a simple sequence based execution A, then B, then C and D. So you can use LangChain there. But if you want a conditional based approach, let's say A fails, then it goes to B. Then if B fails, it goes to something on those lines, right? Then you can have a Lang graph. So we'll be using LangChain for today. Lang graph will definitely come in your next session, right? Or or two from now. Okay, so I'll be calling traditional, you know, dependencies here. We're using Google Colab. The reason is I'm not a big Visual Studio. I'm not saying because I'm a hardcore hater of or hate Microsoft. Of course not. But the thing I'll say about the collab is right. Like, if you work on a cloud, like I work on Databricks, right? And mostly ML engineers and I say rack architects works mostly on the on the outside, right? So this gives you a little bit. These are all the notebooks you can write. You know, you have if you're writing on, let's say Azure AI or let's say AWS Sage Maker, right?

So from that perspective, also you get some a little bit a bit about hands-on, right? So I'm using this, and I think the tech stack will be Google Collab only. If you have any preferences, let me know. But I still say streamlining trouble here, rather than the Copilot, because I'm not sure if a recent, you know, update from Microsoft employees. They were using Cloud, and they have exhausted all those. So Microsoft now have asked, have been asked, explicit, have asked these employees to use Copilot only, right? So they have stopped using any of external vendors for now. Anyway, just the news, right? It's been quite a while now, so you must be knowing it. But just a heads up. Okay, we're installing local libraries and then just importing all the necessary. So you can see Langton already have a PyMu PDF loader. So what we do is we'll take a PDF, convert into a text. Okay, we are completely eliminating the tables for now. Like I said earlier, just only the text we are going to focus on. Okay, and we're using OpenAI because it's using PT40, right? So we'll use an OpenAI hub for it, right? Then we using LangChain again to spread the text to chunks, OpenAI embeddings. We're using OpenAI embeddings, no hugging face, which I my practice notebook. That's a different using OpenAI embeddings, and finally Chroma DB for your web database. Okay, so that's about it. Let's come back up. I'll just I just want to make sure I have all the installation set up right. So I hope you are aware of this. You need here. If you see carefully, right? This will open in my videos today. That's okay. So what do you observe? I can open it. Sorry, I'm really bad at jargons, right? Sorry about that. So we open your collab also, but just to quickly set up. So this key would provide it to you, right? By Great Learning because you have paid for it, right? So this is like a paid subscription, so you need it, of course, and API based also. So if you don't have, in a GPT 4o many model, okay. So this should be shared in the block. But this is what you need, right? Okay. So I'm going to put this in content folder. I hope you know how to get a mount? You have to create a mount. Give access to your drive for Google Colab, so that you can put files there. You can create any folder manually. Create any folder which you feel like worth it. And if you don't have this computer, the link which I shared with you earlier, right? This one, it's already doesn't have, but again, mine would different from yours because I'm a mentor. So this is a confusion you can have. Okay, so you can use it. You use it, not a problem at all. That's fine. I'm also using it right for some time, so that's okay. You can use it. There's no restriction on that. Okay, to be honest. Okay, perfect. So that we made it. So let's come back after two minutes. I have a hard stop at 1130, right? So I'll make sure we complete this up. Not going to make sure we are on time also, right? So yeah, there you go. Let's come back. You just make sure you read the config.json. Set up all the you know configurations here. API key page file. If you don't have it, it's a problem. Okay. So yeah, let's come back. We start from response function. Just again, like to explain all the code and elements here because it's a boy. It's not a boilerplate thing, right? But I'll definitely cover the importance. Just reading a code doesn't make any sense. So it's better to invest our time on some other interesting findings, right? Instead of just talking about the function. Every element is there. Okay. So yeah, let's see how many minutes from now, 10:39 sharp, and we start with the response function. Okay, so stay tuned. Camera for two minutes after having some water. Okay, see you two minutes from now. Okay, let's get into it. So, first function we are generating, right? Generate a response. Let me close this up. Right, we're saving mass token. So nothing more than 1000. You know, I'll say tokens. Can be little tables.

I'll say random in terms of the response, and you're making sure that it's coming like it has those content view right from the search point of view. Okay, so these are taking, and we are hardcore thing. Respectively, okay. Now this is a function client dot chat create. We are passing that one here. Passing the rows as user right content is a user prompt. So user prompt is a user instruction which you're going to pass. Okay, like can I read something on those lines? Okay, so that would be the user prompt or user instruction of right, and and then set up or pass. And then the contents we will parse the response because the response would be JSON, right? So that JSON content will be with the exact response because it's a key value pair, right? So if you query this patient, and within that you have to go to choices, get the from there exact content. That would be the exact response. Okay, so we define this. Now let me go back. Make sure we don't take the. So going back to the presentation here. This is the first model we are creating, right? The first version is asking the query here. You can see no context because he's still not creating any knowledge base for now, right? So we gave this to GPT Pro the PM page was 475, and we get this. So these are the questions and the limitation we are going to get. Okay, the first call. Not not adding any you know sort of as extra effort there in terms of prompts or your rags. Let's say that's the first question I'm asking. What is the protocol for managing sepsis in the critical care unit? Just a simple question. GPT four. Okay, get the response here. So let's run this. Be there with me. You're actually passing the query right to any eye. So here it is. You can see I'm not a medical expert. Okay, just elements here. Early identification, use clinical criteria, Q sofa score, lab results to identify patients' address, monitor vital signs, security temperature, heart rate, tree rate, right? IV fluids, admin, intravenous fluids, imperial resuscitation. Sorry about this, right? Then you also have this one, right? We can see it's maximum focus. You can count it up. Then support continuous monitoring, lactate clearance, follow up and reassessment, right? These are the protocols you have to follow in a sepsis treatment. Now this is a generic response, okay? Not coming from, but a very different one. It makes sense. Second question. So again, passing a question here. Common interest for appendicitis. Can it be cured? What surgical process should it apply to? Okay. So let's run this again. Simple query. No prompts. No rags for now. Then this is your response. Loss of hepatitis, nausea, and vomiting. Right. Then these are the methods, surgical methods for open endotomy. Right. That's why you have to laparoscopic appendotomy. Right. So these are the procedures that can be done. Okay. Typically require surgical intercalation to prevent complications. So it's saying it can't be, cannot be treated with medicine, right? So it requires these are the procedures you can. Okay. Now these question would be same throughout. Okay. Just just to reiterate, we will just change the modeling. But I think this would be the question. Would be same. Okay, so addressing certain patchy hair loss, apply spots on the scalp. What could be the possible reasons? Right, and they are also asking about the solution here or treatment. Okay, would be boring. Just running the code, okay. Be some extra element coming up here. Okay, so here it is. You can see hormonal changes. So causes are dope, areta, stress, right, nutrients. Okay, and then if it treatments, minoxidil, rogan. You can also use costase, costeroids, or inorganic medications, right? Lifestyle changes, stress management, right? So it's giving you all the possible generic response, right? Treatment. recommended for a person who has sustained a physical injury to during function. So then this as well. Let's see the response real quick, and then we talk about some. So here you can see immediate amethyst correction is critical. CT scan MRI to assess the excitation. Maybe remove blood cell clots, reduce pressure on the brain, repair skull fractures. Prescribe right. IMD cost muscle.

cognitive rehab, speech language, some of the recommendations, like some modifications, you know, and monitoring and follow up. Okay, so again, now more the model story, right? We got this. This looks good. There's no doubt about it, right? It's very much informative and you know observational for sure, but these responses, if we see right, they are they do not treat medical history. So think of it this way: like if a hospital is treating it, how would it treat differently? I do believe like exchanges. It's not very specific questions, right? Or sorry, sponsors. So in this way, that's why I know these. But maybe a little bit more vertical specific, little bit more subject matter specific, SME specific, right? So now, what the answer is? second approach, we are still far away from a rac, but we will props. We can assist specializing in medical knowledge. Think of it like you are a medical knowledge expert. Medical guidelines, right? You have to prioritize factual correctness by medical standards for medical professionals and general users who have specific reference material beyond general medical knowledge, like knowledge rather than speculating. So you are specifically mentioning it. Don't create the facts. Okay, if you don't know it, expect accept the limitation. Okay, so yeah, that's one prompt. Again, this prompt is appropriate. I'll say yes, we can create different prompts. Not today. This DSPY. This has been given by Stanford, right? So we use. Okay, I'll give you some examples. Not today, maybe I won't worry so much, right? As a subject matter expert, can can I can a framework can give this to me, right? Like by the output, this will get a prompt for me, so think of like a prompt engineering also becoming automated. Okay, like you give the input, you give the output, I'll give you prompt. Okay, so I'll do this experiment with you next session, right? Again, out of scope, nothing. If you're not a subject matter, you don't have to wait for them. You can please get started basic process, and then once the once you feel like it needs more maturity, right? The responses need more maturity or more, you know, okay. This is quite possible. DSPY is a very strong framework, so you can have a look. They say DSPY is a framework given by you know our typing where you can generate the prompts, giving the input and output. Sorry about this. Right? You're planning a response function, okay? But this time, if you see, we will pass a system prompt, okay? The AI medical knowledge input, and then. prompt, of course, a query, right? Rest all will be the same, same tokens, same temperature, same model, everything is same. But how we are passing is we are passing two prompts: a user prompt, which is a user query, and a system prompt, which is a system prompt, like a system prompt. Okay, define this again. Sorry about this. Let's do a system prompt. Now let's see different response now, right? How does it differ? Okay, by the time it's running, let me finish first. Let me See sepsis is here. Identify sepsis initially simulation within first hour. Broad spectrum is getting little broken, right? This was not the case with the first response, right? It also talks about course labels, and supportive care. of failing organs, right? Blood glucose management. Third, you can see some terms also more embolism proximate for patients at risk. Frequent reassessment, palliative care, right? So you can see how this. Procedures. Okay, then let's talk about the second one now. Pendocitis. Then what? I think this would be very generic to what you have. I don't see any differences here. But again, you can see the sponsors also have each string, right? See, 1000 what has been generated, but more relevant content. Okay, it is fever, abdominal swelling, sorry, diarrhea, constipation, medical, you know, medical. Different treatment is here. Open append to Tommy and the laparoscopic end. So nothing changes much. The thing is now that response using very informative, detailed response in a I'll say in a more medical specific topic. Okay. Then let's talk about the small spots here. So you can see this a bigger one, but let's see here most of them. This looks pretty much in line previous responses or the previous portion looks different. Predisposition was not there.

Stress was there initially, but I think this was not there before. Ragged reaction was also. I think treatments are minoxidil osteoids was there again, again. I don't think there's any difference. But it is the nutritional support. species, right? JK inhibitor. This is a different one, right? This was not there before. So again, some more specific findings are here, and then nutrition support, right? Some of them are already there already. Some of them oral immune systems and results are a new value addition to the content. On the impairment of brain function, again, NTFs. Let's see if there's any different stabilization. There's also new care. Required to relieve pressure or repair damaged tissues, rehab, neuropsychological therapy. Analgesics can be prescribed for pain relief. So this again become very surgical approach. Surgical and also dry, right? This up well, and then with psychological support and long-term management. Okay, great list of management prioritization. Now, with base model, of course. Now, this gets more goal-oriented. Valid therapy, right? Subject matter experts were right. Same again here. Suggest economies as standard processes. LOPCR data can see specific causes. This this we see some definitely some right. Find the injury to make. talks about improve handling, accurate chronic dimensions, and surgical decompression. So again, the most getting better, but still the best specific. I'll say right vertical. What I'm going to do is create a presentation for log. Okay, I have to put the PDF here first of all. You can see I have commented for first time using Google Colab, and you need to mount this right. So run this code. Once it gets in Simple terms. So authority or a permission to collab to read to your mount drive. Okay, because your nose. Okay. Our manual with you, medical diagnosis manual. So this is how it looks like. Okay. You can can see all 23 medical leisure disorders, gastrointestinal disorders. Here you can see we have our index. We have some images also, but this past it doesn't write only past the text format. Okay, so we have around 4000 pages. You can. Okay, so let's go back now. Okay, now you can see here we read the PDF file, you pass it to PyMU PDF loader and just load up the content. Okay, so now the manual is here. You can just iterate through some of the ranges, like just seeing the content in some of range. Okay, I think it's still loading. Just give it some time. PDF. Yeah, let's do it one more time. What have happened is it doesn't get document. I can see it's circling up because it's voting, so it will take time to load. Right, it's not a small PDF document. See, I am. Yep, available now. So you can see the index is right. If you remember the first page, it's complete blank. But we again blank from page number three. Start with the index, right? So if I show you here, page was coming back. Page was also blank. So I can see all this, right? Front one, one cover, two cover, front my. This is the best parsing. I'll say we have other. This is a decent source. I'll say right by new PDF. There's also a PDF parser from I think Lang from from any I guess right. So it's it's worth it to have this library. So, Nasrin, what we do here is like about the project. So we cache some responses. Okay, you must have seen this, right? Like what what I do most doing might I have a 20,000 the number of queries. Okay, tokens is different, of course. More tokens means more queries. So cash responses. Okay, as in like you understand just responses. There's also one agent which sends passing a query, one proceeding for safety boots. Otherwise, asking the same question: What? How can I manage the safety boots? So both queries. So what I'll do is what we do is of during doing a query, right? Like going going to OpenAI query getting responses, right? And give them a responses. Okay, so that's like give the the token like number of API calls. That's one way of right. Second thing, like I said, is like we also restrict the users to not slow the token, right? We time box like we apply a hard limit of 1000 tokens or select. We are talking about tokens, right?

And also have number of queries that the user can ask. Like you can't queries per teams from my employee. This is not the best way of doing it, right? But because you want to apply restrictions, right? So I say one very restriction making that doesn't be under certain threshold, and of course the token limit. We also we always let them know that spawn can more tokens because so again these are some notational ways to handle it. Okay, let's go on now, right? So chunking a chunk that we are using recursive cat text splitter dot from tick token encoder. Now that's interesting because we say now this looks like cat text splitter, right? So, but if you're using tick token encoder, they'll be on the tokens. You can also use recursive. You can do cater splitting on number of characters also, but we also say for documents is not recommended. Okay, but there's a way if you want to spit on the characters and not the tokens. That's also that we are doing one, which is a good video, which is, but 1% people may prefer character level as well, so you can have it. Now encoding name is here. What this 100 came? So we are using OpenAI standard. Okay, so OpenAI LML 100,000 token. I am encoding it, right? Encoding the text into a specific ID. So I want to show my passing can convert it into an OpenAI format equivalent, so that it becomes this way. You are using general passing an OpenAI tokens, right? So it may not be compatible. So for example, by OpenAI, that's why using it. If you're using a different model, I'll be using a plot with a model or maybe this may this may have to change the encoding name. Okay, overlaps. Keeping it to 56 because this is again biomedical domain, right? So a small chunk would be preferred. The text splitter there, and these many chunks will be generated. Right, so at some, is it possible to reduce token? I am not sure on this, to be honest, Victor, because I mostly prefer like because sometimes we have to give the exact portion of the docs on user, especially for consideration. I'll be honest with using the same you know token strategy, Right, like changing. Like I hope I got your point. Really speaking, I I have never I have never I haven't followed that approach. So maybe I'm not the best person to answer it. If you're creating a chatbot and if you're giving a policy document right to a user, so you want like just in like if you want to have citations, like give citations, a user click on it and it goes to that PDF document or it shows a snippet of it, right? So I'll say we first give us the tokens. My thought process, okay, maybe if I understand the question correctly, makes sense. Okay, otherwise, okay. So let's see. So we have 14,008 13 chunks with 520 56. You know the process now, right? After chunking, what needs to be done? We need to create the embeddings. Again, just for the sake of just for the sake of showing it to you that all the embeddings will have the same sort of seven. It's just like taking first chunk, second chunk, getting all those chunks has the embedding vector, and that should be same because it's one model you are using, right? So let's get the model here. Let's get the embedding. What's the chunks in embeddings? You can see 1536. We have 1536 columns. Okay, for each of the chunk. Also, right and see this is all float numbers, right? IT speaking, and I write. You have usually coming up. So we convert the. input and output together, and then it will try to learn like which words are important, which ones are giving weight scores. If you understand so otherwise, think of it like a vector. That's it, right? No, nothing complication. No complication now. What will be a vector database? You doing Chroma? We are passing. That would be a dietary of chroma DB. Okay, so we'll use the DB refresh it again, so you'll see medical DB getting generated. For now, it's empty, but for now, this will again take time. It's okay, but let it give some time to it. Keep on refreshing, right? So you will see something available. Okay.

I know it will take a bigger chunk, right? So it's okay. Let it run for some time. It's fine. What do you think about using LLMs to generate prompts for you? Yeah, that's what I said, Sim, right? So can use it for your DSPY, right? Can be done. So if you see a simple DSPY tutorial, right? But yes, you can right DSPY is something we just give the input and the output. This is what I'm looking at, and so we are Doing it okay, generate the problems for you. That's also fine, but DSPY does use internal either code for you. Yeah, perfect. So it's still running. It will take some time. That's fine. Let it run. Well, I'll just explain the remaining code also, right? Or what we can do is by the time it's running, let's go back to our presentation. Lose anything. So we complete the main API prompts. Then we added a check. Formats we also get some sort of citations. If you print the output, right? We didn't just get the right. If you get the response, we see we have the metadata also, like from which document or in this not in this citations, right? From which source something, right? Talk about Gemini. Quickly show it.

Okay.

So if I just ask this question, right? So you will see some citations coming up. Okay. Yeah, this is your code. Are they showing any citations? So you can be looking into it, but ideally they show a citation like from which source this. Okay, so ideally they come and then take. takes you to from where it is coming. So if you click on this, it will show you like where the source comes from. Okay, that's like one way of society. Like from where the source of knowledge is generated.

Okay, yeah. So is it just speed this up. Want to make sure we complete the notebook. Okay, so now here it

is. It's a alphanumeric alphanumeric ID with the name, but that's okay. Doesn't matter. I'm reading the output directly. So persisted in this location, and I need this embedding. So this like retriever, okay, like retrieve the database and the embedding model together. We load the vector store now. Now you can embeddings here. Six length. What sort of open API key show progress, chunk size? How many chunk size support is 1000? You may have applied external sources like maximum capacity. Okay, now let's ask. Okay, just want to test this whether this looks good or not. Okay, so I'm asking a question here. So this is I want three from these chunk one list, then document three. So this is the title, the Merck Manual of 19 edition. This is the certification. Page content, chapter 194, Permonary Embolism. Right. So this is where it starts. The page contains the text chunk here. So this thesis chapter 90 plus embolism. So this chunk has been extracted. So now if we go back to the domain, we'll see chapter 9194. Okay, let me go back to the manual real quick.

Right. This is what has been extracted there. Okay. This is an index. This is we go to one nine. See me one more.

I think it's better to go to here 19. Yeah, right. So if I click here and this is little, yeah, searching. So I have to stop searching now. So here you can see more search, and it should become section 98, so it should be somewhere here. Maybe

this is a new line, right? So here you can see. Yup, here you go. Introduction has been from the chunk. I'll say top chunk here. And again, second document also talks about from sources coming from PDF. To be honest, it's not coming from anywhere else. And it's about I think. Okay.

Okay. Now let's go back. So now I am setting up which will retrieve this vector store. I want three chunks. Okay. I don't know why they say top two. So my apologies. Some typos. Right. So. Okay, so I'm identifying a driver here, which will retrieve and find the process. Roll like the way we did before, and I'll have a query and the context. Context will be coming from rag. I hope you remember example. Same thing here, right? Now coming back here, Q and A system message. You are an AI system designer to support permission doctors and laws used by concise and relevant medical information. When crafting your response, use only the provided context to answer the question. That means when you get from

the answer is found in the context, respond with concise and actionable medical insight. Okay, if the question is in context or the context is empty, clearly this. Okay, so this is kind of don't hallucinate. If you don't know the answer, just say yeah. These are response guidelines, clear diet answers. You do not include any additional information or so the context. Okay, so any shortcuts, any summary can have indicated questions.

So this is a system message. Right, and here is example structure response. Give me the answer. Use a message like a system to be able to put context. some experts excerpts from medical literature and their sources and context was going. If you take from a background, that will take the context, right? All the context would be top your top three chunks. It will be monitored in one text block. So, like chunk one, chunk two, chunk three. I'll become context. Okay. So we are passing this as a syntax, three hashes, context, and three hashes like a syntax you

can think of. Okay.

Okay. Now let's define the response function one more time. Anything there, right? Now important thing to watch out. Head already went down. Okay. So now this one list. This is my list comprehension, right? So I'm iterating over those three and getting the top relevant three, and I'm

all those one string. So I say Anjit, Sena, Toronto. These are three. So I'm concating into conto. Okay, so that becomes one string. Okay, here and then just the user query. Right again, pass according to CM function. GPT four or many. If any exception happens, then just say I don't know. I have encountered the following error. Okay. Let's just generate the rag response for question one. Let's wait. Okay, you can see the answer here. This is about this protocol for managing sepsis in a

critical community. This was again new knowledge, right? Emprich and antibiotic therapy. Recommended regimes. Have intensive monitoring of psychological parameters. Right. What I want to do here is source. Okay, so we can see source the milk manual design therapy. Chapter two septic shock. Okay, so this is where it's coming from. Okay, and the other source. I mean, this has given multiple sources to you. So one is chapter 227. The other one is CRQ 222 approach to critical key patient. So both coming from that source. This becomes citation means cross check. This is what we use even to evaluate on because now we are not evaluating. We are relying on the output, right? But let's say if we had to evaluate whether this looks authentic or not, so we check that the specification results. We have the right, Brian. Please. Quick

question: Where exactly when we are using RAG? Where exactly in the code are you telling it where to go look for additional resources or go look?

So when we creating a vector database, right? You you create you publish a vector database metadata, so it knows what chunks exist at what location. It has that mapping. Yeah, when you're creating the vector database, yes. What you can do is you can actually print this a vector store, right? So it will have the meta. That is 25 chapter exists in this page. So it has

okay. That's that. Yeah, but I mean, I'm

sorry. I was okay. I was so it's actually using the so we were doing the queries was using the LLM to get the answer but now you're asking to go to the document that we upload the PDF okay got it got it yeah so now to the vector store getting the chunks the relevant chunks which within it's give the details. Got

it. Yeah. Okay. Great. Yeah, this looks good. Like I said, and you have the also you know the actual you know inference. I'll say we call it citations, just a proof of concept, or as a proof that this content is coming from this relevant chapter. Okay, in this example, let's call it for other responses as well. For the question, second we started talking about pentanesitis. I hope you remember it right. So here it is. Now it can see the common symptoms of pentocide include epigastric or peri peri pulp pain. Again, you can see little bit crisp and short, right? But effective pain increases with cough and motion. Joint appendicitis can be cured by cannot be cured by medicine alone. Surgical removal of appendix through laparoscopic or a pentotomic. This is the 19 edition, chapter 11, page 163. So we can just query that up. I know this PDF is huge, so I can see it searching right here. Maybe yeah. Let me just do it once again, right? Let me just quickly remove it because sometimes add some sort of extra features there. So I just because we may have yeah been loading the right 19th edition chapter. It's called chapter 11, and that should be there. Let me stop searching for a moment. It's becoming extremely slow. Okay, let's call chapter 11 only acute rev domain. See if this finds it out here. Chapter 11 should be there. I'll still run again, but this will be coming from document. That's what I said earlier, right? So should not be because it's a huge document. So searching is very small. Let me close everything else for now. Let me close everything else. Maybe that's slowing down the search. Let's do it one more time. I think chapter 11 is also going to start chapter 11. Let's see what happens now. Yeah, here you can see, right? So this one, and this is what it's talking about, right? Okay, perfect. And pages 163, so it should be at 163. You can see 1.58, but I think it's coming from right. So this gives and change a bit. That's okay. The way they process the metadata, right? So maybe chance that pages may go slightly up and down. Okay, let's talk about this third one: patchy hair loss. The possible reasons behind it. You can see very crisp, only five or six lines, maybe maximum 200 300 tokens for sure. So again, you can see here few condition may occur in your skin's disorders, chronic spread diffusely possible. It includes gentlemen mechanism and sources medical literature expert on LOP share data. So you can again search that, but this should be available. Okay, and finally the last one, right, which is your your physical injury to pain, and this talks about traumatic brain injury. Talks about this talks about TBI, maintain and treat intra-creational pressure, remove response. Right, rehab is required, and this is all coming from traumatic pain injuries chapter 324. Okay, so now this is again what I've seen. Like sepsis management, of course, is very spot on. And again, the most important thing you have to watch out is the sponsors are very coarse, very crisp. So this looks more action-oriented, right? Like, hey, I can take because you're not. You don't have the time to read even like 500 or tokens, right? This looks more like if I am not, if I'm in limbo, I don't know what to say. I can at least go to that chapter instead of manually reading it through. Structure and more. This is all the summary here, right? Prisons are well structured over because symptoms. Same with Apache hair, loss, erosion, brain treatment. Talks about rehab for brain injury patients, including critical interventions. Right. So kind. want to make sure chunk overlap parameter happens. High groundedness. Now this is important. What is groundedness in simple terms? Your sense is grounded to the context. Grounded means connected to the response. So you got this traumatic brain injury, right? So whatever point setting is connected or grounded to this specific chapter. So whenever we get response from LM, we always that response what LM is giving is coming from the context or not. So if your answer is not grounded, you will you will have a problem. That's what hallucination is, because not coming from authority.

But as long as your response is connected to the to the citation or to the specific you know metadata in your, it's good enough. So your students just ground it. What else? Continuous knowledge updates. Yes, that's also possible. Like I said, there is one example before worked with us, right? We were trying to update the policy before. Okay, like there's a policy change happening in Vancouver, and we kept both the documents, the older documents, documents. So if you keep both the documents, then it would be a problem. So LM can both chunks are available, right? So even it can give you a old. So the best part to avoid that ambiguity or that you know overlap or that I won't say overlap that collision is if you are sure that this document may be updated, just remove the older one and come with the new. You can also design this in a prompt saying prioritize all the recent documents and you know discontinue older documents. But I have seen this with prompt doesn't work that much because it will take time to you know as a feedback loop, right? So the better is if you're updated document, remove the older one and keep the new one, and then retrain your knowledge base again, or knowledge web database again. Support yes, so possible for knowledge English. Work in I'll say 150 languages. To be honest, that's what I have seen. We are we have rolled out our chatbot in six languages, Spanish. In Canada, we have a lot of Punjabi population, right? So it's Punjabi, also very lingual, right? Like regional, and then we have got also gone in English. We've also gone in Portuguese, right? And Brazilian language also, right? I don't know the language, but that's it. That's all I have for now. Any questions? Have that's great. Let me know. Drag section does not follow the following message. It is possible, but if you have exhausted your token, like there is a, I think there is a soft limit of right five minutes or so. So they can do that scenarios. Maybe the the GPT LM model may not be able at that time, right? Maybe you have exhausted your token limit. That's that's one area because I have seen this that the message should be like you have exhausted your limit, but sometimes people say I don't see any risk. So to your point, yes, it is possible. Maybe if the LM model is going through some upgrades, and maybe they have made some change. That's quite possible, but not very frequent, because I'm running it right now. It's running fine, right? No, it's indeterministic also at times, right? Responses can be indeterministic, especially when you're when you're not using rag and you're relying as a general response. To say that the role of LM in this is to reason whether the retrieved information makes sense and is within garbage format. The other point is like I said, LM is only focusing on the actual knowledge source, and that's what should be the goal of RAG. Okay, LM can have any thinking or understanding, we don't care about. We just care about rag LM. Here is a rag output: top three, top five, top 710, chance. You know, hallucination or context switch in this case. So, thing I'll definitely have a homework on this, Victor. This question looks new to me as well. I have never used a hard file, so I'm going to talk about right. But I'll definitely go for next week, and that should be it. There are some other follow-ups. Guardrails, like I said, let me show you up. I have a hard stop, but I quickly see if I can answer that question. Again, this is all coming up, so nothing to worry. Something I'm myth. So what we do here, I can quickly show you up. This is a tool which I think we are going to use. Okay, and we use this in a day-to-day work also. I run something on. Don't like I don't have anything here. Okay, okay, no runs. Seven days. Here you go. Right now, this is agentic solution, right? So let's say you want to keep a track, you hear no validation, no validate, right? Extract valid games. So again, don't worry about what this tool is. Think of it like if you're running agentic AI pipeline, right?

And to see whether this validates the response or not. Like the response what you're getting is correct or not, like the variety of it, right? So this gives you evidence, like at grounding, it's coming from the actual knowledge base or not. The web database is what you have created, right? So we can keep a track on all of this. So one model ML GPT 4o many doing its work. The other model GPT 4o is actually all the responses, and if the response looks valid, only then the response will be go will be going to the end user. Otherwise, discard because it may be rules, some policies. Okay, so again, like I said, you guys are on the right track. There are a lot of that's what that's how. I am going to take. We are going to take small steps. Okay, let's not completely you know break the queue. Okay, yeah. To your point, yes, they are. These are where I can apply the guardrail and make sure that thing goes out of the track because any one damage can so that's the best way you're going to. Okay, guys, that's all. Thank you so much for your time. We are on track. Yep, I already have shared the link with you. Okay, drive link folder. What notebook we have seen today? Basic example: LM Prom, Big Nurse, Medical Rag deck, the deck which I use is also here, right? I think covered everything, so nothing to worry. We covered all the three cases. Why we can also see the code here, which code is talking about what sort of element, right? Just make this little simpler, right? For you can go through there, see what chunks we are using, what sort of text chunking we are using, right? What sort of embeddings we have used and everything in there. This is all covered in the book. But if you want to have a view, explore this up as well. And that should be it. Any further questions for me? Should I call off? Yes. No. Maybe I'm open for the feedback, right? If you feel like this is, can we get better for ask more questions? Yeah, Michael, go please. So, Michael, say these. I mean, these can be taken care by the program manager. I don't have the visibility to access side, but yes, I kept one config.json here. If you can try to copy out again, I'm sure it will work. But again, I'll still say be little diligent on it because you're a learner, I'm a mentor, so maybe I more than because, but I'm just okay. But there's a case, yeah. But I shoot right now. Again, I'm sure this would run because it's running for me, so it should also run for you. But again, if there's any, I don't think there's any role limitation, right? Like I'm a social work, okay. But if not, more than happy to, you know, like you can post it on a chat, on the chat message, or on the forums, right? Yeah, no worries. Thank you so much. Pleasure is all mine. Like I said, I will make sure this is own the feedback. Right? My daughter's skating class. Okay, so sorry about this. It's a hard stop for me. So, but again, I'm not rushing. It would be on time. Today, onwards will be 11 a.m. So thanks again for all your effort. Keep up the going. Keep up the good work, and let's catch you next weekend. See you guys now. Bye.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
