All right. I think we can get started. So, good morning, everyone. Could you please confirm by the chat if I'm audible? Awesome. Thank you for the confirmation, so welcome everyone to the pre-engagement session. Again, the purpose of today's session is basically you know to go through the fundamentals of Python programming, and in addition, you know to learn how to use you know AI-assisted tools to help you with the coding as well. So we will be specifically looking at you know the running Python scripts on the Google Collab environment. Now, once again, like you know, I'll be setting a few ground rules for today's session. This is a webinar mode, so meaning you will in be in a listen-only mode, and while you will not be able to, you know, unmute and talk in today's session, we do have the Q and A box available as well. So, if you do have questions that you want me to, you know, address at some point, you know, during the session, please paste them in the Q and A box. Right. So, I will not be looking a lot into the chat box. So, if you paste your questions there, I will very likely you know miss them. So, definitely post your questions in the Q and A box. This session is a recorded session, and it should be made available to you on the Olympus portal sometime later today or by tomorrow at the most. So again, like you know, if you do miss some parts of the sessions, the recording will be made available. And lastly, of course, you know, to ensure that you know we are keeping this session within the time limit, which is the two-hour limit that we have. I will be going through, you know, certain instructions for the first part, like you know, how do we set up your Google Collab environment, and you know, how do we start or load a Python script into the Google Collab environment? Now, while I go through these instructions, there may be the case, you know, you may be finding it hard to follow through immediately on the go, so I do not expect all of you in the session to actually go hand in hand with what I'm, you know, executing this notebook and going through the explanations today, right? So, like again, if you do find some of the instructions difficult to follow through, it's okay because you will have the recording available later on, and I would encourage you to then you know try to follow through the instructions taking your own time, right? An offline method. Again, this is so that you know there's not a lot of interruptions during the session where people are asking you know for me to reiterate or repeat the instructions, right? So, if your questions are specifically on the instructions, I would encourage you to you know hold off on those, and it's okay, better to you know just observe the session and see what is happening. Try to follow the concepts over here, right? The key learning takeaways will be more important than you trying to do the execution of the code right now in live, right? So those are like some of the things that I do want to you know encourage everyone to follow through, definitely. And if if you do have otherwise you know conceptual questions which you want me to clarify, just make sure the questions are you know scoped within today's session. Now, of course, you are doing an agentic AI program, so definitely you have a lot of questions about that aspect. But again, today's session is not meant to address concepts of agentic AI or you know deep learning, generative AI, any of those things, right? It's just primarily about like AI assisted coding and Python programming. So we'll try to you know just try to scope your questions within that domain as much as possible, and yeah, I think with all that said, we should be good in terms of the ground rules and in terms of the agenda. I will be spending the first few minutes showing you how to you know get started with the Google Collab environment.

So basically, how to you know open your Google Collab environment, how to you know set up your profile, and then we'll talk about how to load the Python scripts that you know you'll be getting as part of the program, right? So every week, Great Learning is going to be providing you case studies through these Python notebooks. We so I'll show you know how you can download the notebooks from the Olympus portal, and then you know set it up or load it into the Google Colab environment, and then we will, you know, get started with this particular case study, like a sample case study that we have. And the purpose of the case study is just to demonstrate the various Python programming fundamentals, like what are variables, what are loops, what are conditional statements, and so on. So yeah, I think that should cover everything in terms of the ground rules that we want for today's session. So we can get started now. The first thing is first, right? The so as you can see in my view, I have already loaded a Python notebook into the Google Collab environment, right now for today's session, which is the intro to Python. To in order to you know get the sorry, yeah. So in order to get the notebook that I am going to be demonstrating for today's session, you will need to navigate to your pre-work course module, right? So you should already be having access to your Olympus website. You can navigate your courses, go to the pre-work module, and in that you will be looking for the pre-engagement session to getting started with Python, right? So that is the section that we are covering in today's session. So you want to expand that, and you will see that there are many links to files or resources for the session. Now, the two files that I want you to download for today's demonstration purpose will be the data file. So this is basically just a CSV file that contains some data. We'll be you know talking like much later into the session, we'll be talking about how to load a data file into your Google Colab environment as well. So you need to download this data file, and the main thing is going to be the session notebook. This is basically your Python notebook which you'll be using to run the codes. Okay. Later on, I'll be also giving a small distinction about what is a notebook versus what is a Python script, right? So we'll talk a bit about that very soon. But you need to first download these two things, and basically they'll be loaded into your local machine. Now, in order to get started with a Google Colab environment, the first thing that you need to do, of course, the prerequisite is you need a Google account. So once you have created a Google account, you will need to go to this link, which is collab.research.google.com. I'll just paste it in the chat. One moment. Yeah. So the idea of this is after you have logged into your Google account in your browser, you need to go to this link. Now the purpose of going to this link is not exactly you know to get started with the actual coding, but rather by you going to this link in the background, what happens is your profile, your Google Collab profile gets set up, and that will enable you to basically, you know, give you quicker ways or mechanisms to, you know, load data files and script files into your Google Colab environment. So right now you don't have to do anything over here. You can just go to this link. But yeah, usually the home page is basically the starting page to show how can you you know get started with creating a new notebook, or if you want to upload a new notebook, you know from your local system, you can do that. Now, this is one option. If you go to the upload option, you see this upload a file, right? This is a valid way for you to upload the notebook that we just downloaded from Olympus into your Google Colab environment. However, I will be showing an alternative route for this. How to you know basically load your Python notebooks into the Collab environment?

Okay, so for now, you can just ignore this, and you know you can basically close this link altogether, this window altogether. The only thing you have to do is just go to this link. As I said, in the background, it sets up your profile. That was the only intention for going to this link. Now, sorry, a few things that I do want to do before I close this link, right? So, see, Google Collab is a free tool. Anyone can access it as long as you have a Google account, right? Now they do have a subscription as well. Now the difference between the free version and the subscription version is that your Collab environment, which is actually a cloud instance. Basically, you're not running the Python code on your local machine. You're actually running it on a cloud instance on the Google servers. Now, those instances which you connect to for your execution of Python code, those machines will be powered by a CPU, sometimes with a CPU and a GPU as well, right? So what we are when you have the free tier version, you do have access to the basic kind of machines, which is primarily CPU bound or CPU based. So primarily you have a CPU based machines which you have access to. There is a free tier GPU as well. So to see what the free tier version of the GPU is, again you don't have to follow through the link right now. I'll again revisit that link, but you can see in the hardware accelerator session of your runtime, which is basically you know the environment in which executing the Python code by default, it is selected with the CPU, which means you know this is the the free tier version. When you go to the paid tier version, you will also have access to other GPUs also. Now, in the free tier version two, you do have access to one particular GPU, which is called as a T4 GPU. Now, the T4 GPU, it is a like you know more smaller VRAM GPU. Like I believe it's a 12 GB VRAM or a 16 GB VRAM. So it's a bit small in terms of the GPU cap capability, but still, it is something you can use like you know when you are running very expensive or very high GPU-based bound codes, like when you're doing deep learning models and stuff, it may be helpful. But the per for the purpose of this program, right? For the agentic AI, you are very less likely to you know you'll need to use GPU. And if at all, I think there may be just one session where a GPU may be needed, and for that you can absolutely use a T4 GPU. So, essentially, for the purpose of this program, you do not have to worry about getting the subscription. I do have a subscription again. That's for my personal purposes, but you are not required to have a Google Collab subscription for this program. Okay, so that's a bit about you know the Collab environment. Now again, just to recap, at this point in time, we have just set up the Google Collab profile. We have downloaded the notebook and the data file from Olympus. Now we need to connect the notebook and load it into this particular collab environment. So how do we go about it? As I mentioned earlier, the one way was you could you know hit that upload button that we that we saw earlier. But I am not going to go through that route. Instead, what I am going to do is, I'm going to upload the notebook into my Google Drive, right? So the next step that you need to do is, of course, because if you have a Google account, you do have Google Drive access as well. So what you can do is navigate your Google Drive, organize your folders, you know, create your folders and subdirectories, and then just upload the CSV file and the notebook. You can ignore this third file for now, but the main things that you want to focus on are the just uploading the notebook and the CSV file. Once you have uploaded them into Google Drive, right? The next part is simple: to open the notebook or load the notebook into Collab environment.

All you need to do is right click, go to Open with, and you should see this option called as Google Collaboratory. Now, if you did not go earlier to the collab.research.google.com, it is very likely this option will not appear over here. So that's one of the reasons I was saying. You know, you need to just go to collab.research.google.com. Now, even if you did go to that link, there can be sometimes still a chance that you may not see this Google Collab option in here. If that is the case, all you need to do is go to connect more apps option. This will open the app marketplace for Google, and you need to search for collaboratory over here. So go to collaboratory. You should see the Google Collab icon over here, and you should see an install button over here if it wasn't installed. So this can happen sometimes. Even if you go to collab.research.com, you know your Google account may not have registered the collab installation. So you know you need to go to the workspace and manually hit the install button, and you should wait to see this you know the checkmark install icon show up. Once that happens, you can just close it. Maybe you can, you know, close your Google Doc, just reopen it once again, or refresh the page. And then, if you hit right click on the the notebook file, and if you go to open with, you should definitely see the Google Collab environment. So, this is what you need to do. Once you do this, that's pretty much it. Like it loads the file directly into your collab environment, and this is the notebook file containing the Python code and everything which will which we'll be executing for today's session. Okay. Now, one more thing before I get started. If any or all of you like, if any of you are already familiar with other Python programming environments like PyCharm or VS Code or things like that, you do do not need to constrain yourself to using Google Colab, you are you are free to use any Python coding environment for the purpose of this certification program. So you don't have to like you know really focus on just Colab. But if you are a Python beginner, right? Google Colab is a very beginner friendly environment, meaning you don't have to do much to set up and get started with running the Python code. As you can see, like you know, all I had to do was go to a link, upload a file to a drive, and you know, just open it. Right. So it it was quite simple. If you are setting up your own environment, you'll have to go through a few things of installing the Python compiler and all the libraries and things like that. The good thing is Google Colab already comes with all those things packaged in. So that's the advantage of you know using Google Colab over the other tools. Now that does not mean that Google Colab is superior in terms of functionality and flexibility. In fact, I would say it is a bit worse compared to the other tools in terms of you know the functionality it offers and the flexibility it offers because these other environments like VS Code and all you have a lot more degree of customizability and you have lot more integrations in terms of especially you know with today when you're using AI coding assistance and so on. So again, if you are familiar with other things, do use it. But again, for the the program is going to go through all its demonstrations using the Google Collab environment. Okay, so yeah, so we are at this point. Wait, so I see a question from Rahul. Can you please share the path for the? As I mentioned, the path for the files. You will need to go to your Olympus dashboard. Go to your courses. Go to the pre-work module. Right. So you need to go to your courses. You will need to go to your pre-work module, and under the section called as pre-engagement session two, getting started with Python. When you expand that section, you should see the file and the notebook that we are using. Okay. Now, once again, as I said earlier, like again, if you are not able to follow through with the instructions, it's okay.

The recording of the session will be made available. So again, I would encourage all of you to not ask me to repeat the instructions. Just you know, try to go with the flow for now. Okay. Now coming back to the notebook. So. now the first thing is, once you open the notebook in the Google Colab environment, you cannot directly right away go and you know start executing code in here. You need to actually connect to the runtime. So this is like right now just a static view, a view where you can't run the Python code. What you need to do is you need to now connect to a cloud instance of the runtime, the Python runtime on the Google Colab service. For in order to do that, all you need to do is hit this content over here. But remember earlier I did go to this dropdown option next to it, and I went to this runtime type. So, if you want to change the default runtime environment, you will always get is the CPU-based environment, right? Based on Python. Now, again, as I said, if you do, if you are running very intensive code and you do need to make changes, then if you want to, you know, switch to GPU, you'll need to go to that change runtime type, hit GPU, and you can hit save. Then you will actually connect to a GPU instance. Now, of course, for today's session, we are running basics in Python code. You absolutely do not need a GPU. It'll it'll kind of you know burn through your. You get like a small amount of credits per month based on the free tier subscription, and you'll quickly burn through them if you start using a GPU. So definitely save your GPU only for the very critical scenarios. So again, in this program, as I said, very likely you don't need to use GPU at all. But for now, we'll be using the CPU. And from the Python version, they do have like other Python version environments also, but generally, I would recommend you know to just keep to the latest runtime version. That's perfectly fine. And you will also observe that Google Collab does support a few other programming languages like R and Julia as well. So if you're interested in you know like doing programming in R. Absolutely, you know Google Colab is another free environment you can run. But yeah, we'll you know keep to Python three, the CPU-based accelerator, and the latest environment. One more thing is there is also a system RAM option. Like you can expand your system RAM by default. You have the low RAM option, but you can expand it to the high RAM option. Again, this is only available for the subscriptions. Again, and once again, you don't need this also for the purpose of the program. So you should be fine with the basic configuration, right? So all you need to do is hit the condition. Now, what happens over here is it'll take a bit of a time, like maybe 1015, seconds, and it'll try to you know find a runtime environment on the collab servers. And once you see this green check mark, it means you can start running the code. Okay. Now, let's talk a bit about this notebook file. Earlier, I did mention that hey, this is a Python notebook file and not a Python script file. Both of these are fundamentally different. So one has the extension .ipynb, which is the interactive Python notebook. So that is a file which we are dealing with today. Okay. So and normal Python scripts, the regular Python scripts, they have a different extension, which will be .py. Now, the difference between these two, the Python notebook and the Python script file, is that a Python script only contains code in it and nothing else. You cannot write plain text in there, or you can't add annotations and scripts or images and things like that. That cannot be done in the Python script. However, as you can see very well in this Python notebook, I am having images, logos, plain text, right? I have plain text, I have images, and I also have code in it at the same time, Python code as well. So, how does this happen? That is what the Python notebook does for you, right?

The Python notebook basically supports both code plus text as well, okay. And when we talk about text, it's not just like plain text only. It also supports a special formatted version of text like Markdown text and HTML also. Okay, so we'll take a look into this. But this is the advantage of an IPYNB file. This is a Python script. Now, of course, so the idea or the intuition behind using an interactive Python notebook or an IPYNB file is that you want to use it in places where just the code is not the only focus, but you want to do code plus annotations. These annotations can be used to explain the code, to demonstrate the output of code, and you know, for various reasons, so the interactive Python notebook allows you to do that. You can write the code. You can also put additional explanations and details and other things supporting that code as well. So usually, for demonstration purposes, for learning purposes, you know, IPv file is good. Or if you're doing things like you know data analysis, where you know you're running some code, you want to see the nice output of the charts, right? Like you create like charts or graphs, and you want to see their output immediately. Interactive Python notebook is very good for those purposes. So it was primarily built for data analysis purposes, like where people run code and generate graphs and charts. Of course, its usage is extended beyond it also. So it's a very neat way when you want to focus not just on the code but code and other text-based annotations. But if you focuses only on the code, which is usually the case when you're working on your projects, right? Like when you're writing a project or you're building an application, the application code once you want to put it into production, it doesn't care about annotated text because that code is running on some server. That text is not going to be visible to anyone. In that case, you're only focusing on the functionality of the code and not these additional annotations of the text. So in such cases, when you're you know actually deploying applications and writing code, you will only focus on using the .py script in that case, the Python script file. Okay, so that's the difference between these two. Now, generally speaking, for the most of this program, because you know we are giving you notebook files to demonstrate how things work and how things you know should be done, we will be usually you know looking at Python notebook files and referencing the code and all the complementary text-based annotations with it as well. But when you're actually so much later into the program, we'll be focusing on or teaching you how to deploy applications, agentic AI applications into you know these deployment spaces. At that point, we will switch completely from notebooks to Python scripts. Okay, so for the most part of this program, we'll be just using notebooks, not Python scripts, but later on, the Python script will also be relevant. So that's the next difference you need to know about the Python notebook and Python script. Now, just to take a look at this, you know your Python notebook it is compressing of cells, so it's see when I select the different parts of my notebook, each part of my notebook has all these cells, okay, and each of this is like one one cell, including the part where my code is also there. That is also a cell. So your Python notebook has two kinds of cell: one cell which is meant for the text, and one cell which is meant for the Python code. So when you look at the top left corner, right over here, you can see there's an option called plus code. This plus code, what does is it basically adds a code cell after wherever you have selected in this notebook. Okay. At the same time, you also have the option to add a text cell over here as well. So plus text will add a text cell. So this is what a text cell looks like. This is what a code cell looks like. A text cell, as you can see, has like two parts to it, like a preview portion and the editor portion.

So in the editor portions, where you can you know write your points, like hey, I want to let's say create a heading, and I want to create a level two heading, and I want to create some bullet points. Let's say. Okay, so this, as you can see, the way I'm actually formatting my headings level to heading is by specific kind of formatting over here. This formatting is the markdown formatting. Okay, now you don't have to take time to learn about markdown formatting, right? You can just write plain text. Also, that is perfectly fine, right? Like some text that also works just fine, and the good part is, if you are not familiar with the Markdown formatting, you have like a editing toolbar, which has the options. Like if you want to make this a bullet point, you can just hit it here, and it'll give you these options. So you know, like you have all these options. for editing. If to bold a text, you can select it and hit bold, and the editing, the formats, the formatting symbols will get automatically added when you select the option in here. So it's kind of easy that way. Like you don't have to try and spend too much time learning the Markdown formatting syntax. Instead, you can just you know use the editor. Okay, so this is what a code cell looks like. So once you're done with all the editing and you know you're done with it, you can just hit this close Markdown editor, and then you're only left with the preview. Right. When it comes to the code cell, the code cell is not somewhere where you can type some text. If you type like you know some text, it'll throw some error. As you can see, like you know this is like an error. This is meant for only Python code. So I need to write some valid Python code, something like this. And then if I run the cell, you can see it executes the Python code in the cell, and it generates the output. Okay, so that's what a code cell looks like, and this is what a text cell looks like. Now, of course, you may be wondering about images and things like that, and the good thing is for images like we can also use. So, in this particular cell, which has the UT logo and the Great Learning logos. These logos were actually done using HTML linking, right? So HTML image sourcing is what we used to simply generate the view, and you can see this is another way of formatting the text as well. So earlier I showed formatting of text based on Markdown. You can also do the formatting based on HTML tags. So you have these options with you. Okay, so the text cell is quite flexible. Of course, they're you know they're kind of expanding on this support of text cell to other kinds of formatting as well. But primarily, it's meant for Markdown or HTML formatting. So yeah. yeah, that kind of covers the cell. Now I think we can, you know, get started. So we have covered, you know, the basic aspects of notebook, Google Collab environment. Now we can actually focus on the Python programming fundamentals, right? So let's get started with the case study that we are dealing with today. So for today's case study, we have like this hypothetical scenario, which concerns a business called as House of Superstore, right? So it's a e-commerce or some kind of a retail company that sells a variety of products. Now, what of Superstore is looking to do is that they want to enhance their inventory management by using you know some kind of generative AI and basic insights and so on. Now, of course, we are not going to do anything based on generative AI in today's session. The idea is we'll just you know learn through the basics of Python programming, like how can we use variables to handle data or organize data. How can we use other data structures to more efficiently organize the data and so on? Like those basics are what we're going to cover. So we'll be looking at a very simple way of inventory management without going into you know complex solutions over there, okay.

So of course the solution itself is not going to look impressive by any means, but I think the process of how you learn to program and how you learn to use you know the AI assisted coding, those are going to be the key takeaways for today's session. Okay. Now the first thing is, you know, we have a simple scenario. Let's say this business they want to print a welcome message, right? Such as "Hi welcome to Wow Superstore. So Python has a very simple function called as a print function, where if you give it a string of characters in there, it will gen generate an output on the console. So this part of any code cell, right? The second half of the code cell, this is what we call as a console output, where the output of whatever you know you do here is printed or displayed over here. So this particular statement does nothing except, you know, display that message as is. That's all pretty much it is doing. And if you run this after you have connected to the runtime, right? If you did not connect to the runtime and you try to run this, it'll you won't be able to do so. So once you have you know connected to a runtime, you can run this, and it just displays that message as is. Now, this is the next part where I want most of you to focus on, right? Like, which is now many of you may be beginners to Python programming, and you may be wondering, like, you know, how much time should I spend on trying to learn the syntax of Python programming, right? And what I would encourage all of you to do is because again, you are doing an agentic AI course. It is important to understand, like you know, you can use AI-assisted agents for actually writing the code on your behalf, and you should not be spending too much time learning the Python syntax or you know exactly how to you know get the coding done right? The how the coding will be done will can be taken care of by you know all these coding agents. We'll talk about the one in your Google Collab shortly, but you need to only focus on the what basically, like what is it you're looking to? How can you articulate the requirements that you have, right? Once you have the requirements that you have, how can you present it as a prompt to an AI-assisted coding agent to write the code on your behalf? So that's the way to you know try and think about how to go about you know the coding in this program, right? If you again, if you're not familiar with Python programming, now if you are familiar with Python programming, that is a going to be a benefit itself to you. It's not like you know it's a waste of time learning Python programming because if you do know Python programming, when these AI assisted agents generate code, it gives you slight edge towards you know quickly looking at the code and understanding if there are some potential issues because AI coding agents are not flawless and they are susceptible to bad prompting. That means if you give a prompt without clear, well-defined requirements, then you know the AI coding assistants they will kind of you know fail be subpar in their code generation as well. So, but like you know, if you know Python programming, when you observe that generated code, you may have an edge into quickly identifying those issues and helping you refine your prompt very quickly. But that doesn't mean again if you don't know Python, there's no way around it. I'll discuss much later after you know we covered this notebook a bit about you know some AI assisted coding like you know some standards or structures on how to go about it, but we'll go through the basics. Right. So now let's say, hey, we did this print statement, but let's say you're not familiar with the syntax of Python programming, and you may make mistakes like you know not including the double quotes or the brackets, and so on. So, the same print statement can be generated using an AI prompt as well. So here is a prompt, a sample prompt. So this notebook does offer the sample prompts you can use.

Now, how do we use the AI agent specifically in Google App. Every tool, whether you're using VS Code or PyCharm or you know Google Colab, each tool or IDE has their own setup for AI integration in Google Colab because it's a Google-based environment. They do have the Google Gemini coding agent inbuilt into the collab environment. So there are three ways by which you can, you know, kind of trigger the AI assistant. One is, let's say you want to display this message and you want to write the code for that to display that message, right? You can create write a code cell. Now, when you open, you know, create a code cell and it is empty, you will see it has this option called generate with AI. You can hit that, and you should see this Gemini chat box pop up on the site. This is when you can give the prompts over here, and that prompt will be used by the agent to generate the code and populate it in the cell. This is one way to you know jump from your notebook to the Gemini coding assistant. The other way is you can hit the toggle Gemini option in the bottom center of the screen. That too will open the same Gemini chat agent. The third way is when you open a code cell, instead of hitting this option of generate with AI, towards the right hand side you will see this option called as available AI features. When you hit that, you should see the option called as generate code. So when you hit that, once again you will reach the same view. The moment you see this, you know Gemini chat box view. It means now you can start prompting Gemini to generate code on your behalf. Now, of course, this we will later look into. You know, this agent is not just for generating code. You can use it for debugging your code, correcting your code, enhancing your code, right? Like for all these things, you can use it. So, but yeah, let's put not simple requirement, right? Like, let's say you did not know how to write a print statement, but you know how to you know verbally articulate your requirement, saying that hey, you know what, I want to display this message: hi, welcome to Super Store. And the Gemini agents they do have different tiers of Gemini agents. Now, I believe if you have the free tier version of Google Collab and the Google account, you will have access to Gemini 2.5 Flash. You may have access to Gemini 3 Flash, but the Pro will not be available to you, right? So the Flash version is what you can use, and I would say, largely speaking, 2.5 flash will work for most scenarios that you would need to do. There may be like few some scenarios when you're working with more advanced agentic AI implementation. Two five flash might get a lot more confused as to how to go about it. But for today's session purpose, like 2.5 flash is more than enough. So we have to present our requirement to the agent and let's hit send. Now this may take like you know a few seconds. Like sometimes you know these agents may go in a limbo. Like if you see it going on around for spinning like like 30 seconds or plus, it may mean you you may need to you know just restart your kernel or your runtime environment. It could be an issue, but here you can see it generated very quickly. Here's the code to display the welcome edge. Now it did not display the code here, but instead you can see the cell that we created earlier. It got populated with the code. Okay, hi, welcome to Wow Superstore. It's the same as what we saw here. Now you can see this cell looks a bit different. It shows this Gemini tag and it has this green and red shading. Basically, the green and red shading is to indicate like you know the difference in the code that is being generated or you know updated or deleted. So it's just basically saying that I have added a new line with the code, and you have accepting the code that the AI generated. You can hit cancel to reject it completely, or you can hit accept and run.

Accept and run means you are accepting and hitting the execute button to run and generate the output as well, so you have these options with you, and as you can see, like this is a base. You know, do the print over here. I see a question from Robin. How do you recharge the runtime? That's a good question. You know, previously it used to be much more simpler and intuitive. Like you used to have an option in here. Now they only have the option of disconnecting runtime, which is not what you want to do. You can just go to the commands over here. So what they're trying to do is making it a bit more intuitive in a way, which I'm not sure if it is. But you go to the commands and you can hit restart session, and that is the same as you know restarting runtime or session. They are the same synonym. So you can do that. The moment you do that, it kind of you know just restarts. Like it'll disconnect and reconnect immediately. But the moment you do that, it means you need to you will lose all the variables that you are executing, and you would need to re-execute your code once again. Okay, but. this is a way you can go about it. Now, now we are going to expand on this case study with other scenarios, and now with those scenarios, we will highlight how the how your Python variables and Python data structures will be used. So we'll start with the concept of variables, right? So let's say like you know this Wow Superstore, they sell a variety of products, right? So now let's say one of the products they sell are mobile phones, and they have an initial stock of 100 phones. How do we organize this data in the Python memory? So the way to go about it is using the variables. Okay, so so phone stock when you put it equal to like 100, this is like the variable. That variable has a value called 100. Now, over here we have some bullet points which basically dictate the standard rules how a variable name, how the variable's naming convention should be. Right, there are some rules for the variable naming convention. For example, a variable name cannot start with a number. So, if I try to you know create a variable name 123 underscore my variable, and I try to assign it a value 100, you will get an error immediately, so you can see it throws an error saying invalid decimal literal. I mean, forget about what the error means. That can be a bit like there are so many different kinds of errors in Python. Going through each of them will be like too difficult to understand. Now, one way you can you know, sorry, just give me one. Yeah. Now, while the the error code may be a bit confusing or difficult to you know follow through, you can ask Gemini to explain the error. So Gemini would, you know, look at this error and maybe it'll try to, you know, automate in an automated fashion. It'll try to explain and try to correct the error as well. So that is another way, you know, you can use Gemini. But again, here the error is quite straightforward. So it is basically because the variable name is starting with a number, and that's a rule that cannot be broken. So I'm just going to reject Gemini's recommendation. We don't need that. So now, while a variable name cannot start with a number, it can start with a letter, alphabet, or the underscore. Right. So these are all valid options. You can either have underscore my underscore variable or just without the underscore. This is also valid. So variable names can only start with alphabets or underscore. Variable names are case sensitive, right? So if I have print like my variable, and let's say later I want now print the value of my variable. So you can generally use print like this, but we mentioned earlier that variable names are case sensitive. That means if I try to use something like this, it will again throw an error saying that my variable is not defined, so like you know, it's again like there are these rules that you would want to follow through, right?

So I'm just going to delete these cells, and we will just continue with this requirement, right? Let's go with the demo. I see a couple of questions, questions from Robin: Thought runtime and session were different. There, there is a technical difference between them, but like for the purpose of this restarting the session and runtime, they are essentially the same. Question from they are like coding in Collab Notebook, which involves multiple codes, is there any easy way to apply debugging and step into the step into and step over options? So you're talking about you know regular debugging. That kind of a debugging option is not present in Google Collab, like across different cells, you can do the debugging using AI. That means AI assistant. If you just tell, like you know, you don't even need to select a particular cell. You can just say like in my cell. You can describe in the cell which does this, or across the cells that do this particular functionality, I'm observing this error, right? And your Gemini agent is usually, you know, I would say smart enough to pass through multiple cells and get all the context and figure out what may be wrong. But unlike traditional, what do you say, IDs, you cannot do the debugging where you are able to step into functions or you know observe variable values and do the traditional debugging. That option is not present in in notebooks. Okay. All right. So now we started with a basic scenario or a basic premise that you know, hey, we have this data points about stock quantity, and we want to store that for a particular item. In this case, which is phones, so we created a simple variable called phone underscore 100, right? So that works. Now, similarly, let's say like you know, again, Superstore has a stock for 200 sofas as well. Now, once again, variable assignment while it has a particular format, like you know the value, the variable name, then the equal to. You can again, if you do not want to be bothered by those aspects, you can definitely use a prompt as well, right? So here is like an example of a prompt. I'm just asking, hey, the superstore has 200 so far. I want to send it a variable, right? And again, these way things can be done. Now, of course, here we are asking very atomic operations for the AI to do. Of course, these AI are smart enough to do larger tasks as well. So you can give like a set of tasks and ask Gemini 2.5 flash to do that, and they will generally again. I'm not saying guaranteed it'll do good, right? Because the guarantee cannot happen due to the quality of your prompting and also the model's capability. The better the model is, the more likely it'll meet your expectations, of course. And if the better your prompt quality is, the better also the model will or the agent will reach or meet with your expectations. So, yeah, in our case, you can see we were able to generate the variable value assignment with the Gemini agent, and that worked as well. I'm going to delete the cell just to keep you know things consistent with the original notebook. So we, you can see you know we have different variables for holding quantities for different items. Now let's say there was a sale, right, and 30 phones were sold. We want to update the stock, so phone stock is equal to phone stock minus 30. We are just deducting 30 from the original phone stop, and you can see that. And by just putting the variable like this over here, we are basically it's the equivalent of you know doing a print. Okay, in notebook, if we just put the variable name without the print, both of them will do the same. Display the value of that variable. So you can see that basically we were able to successfully update the value of a variable over here. We were initializing the value of a variable. Similarly, if you also want to you know update the sofa stock, right? So sofas have been sold. 50 units of sofas have been so sold. We want to update the stock using a prompt.

Again, I'm not going to go through every single prompting and doing the code generation, but just go through the prompt over here, which says like you know update the stock inventory to to reflect recent sales. A total of 50 sofas have been sold. Ensure that the new stock count is accurately adjusted based on this update, right? And you can see this is a sample generation of that. So so far stock equal to sofa stock minus 50, and it's printing it. So it also works. Now one thing to just keep in mind before I proceed is this particular statement. Right in notebook, there is no concept of you know the code runs from top to bottom always, you can go back and forth among the cells. Now within a cell, the code is executed from top to bottom, but across cells, you you decide if you want to run them in different order. So that means after I run this cell, I can go back and run this cell again. Now if I run this cell once again, you will see my phone stock, which was updated to 70, will again get deducted by a further 30 and get changed to 40, right? So if I do this, you can see something to 40 because I'm just the variable's value is still in memory and I'm just rerunning the cell, and the value keeps getting updated, right? So you need to be very careful about you know when you're organizing code in your notebook and the order in which you execute the cells in the notebook, they matter. Okay, these things can be sources of you know small mistakes that you may easily overlook. Now, to of course reset it, I can always reinitialize a stock value back to 100 and then just run this once, and I'm good. Like back to square one. Now you can see we were able to update the variables, and furthermore, if you want to do more better manipulation, so here what we're doing is we have the unit price of each mobile phone, which is one $50 We want to create a new variable that calculates the total price of the entire phone stock. So we have a variable called total price phone equal to 150 which is the unit price into this quantity, which gives you the total price. So you are able to you know run that piece of code and you know sorry, and then you can you know just print it in another cell, right? So again, a cell does not, as you can see, like you know it's up to you how you organize a code in the cell. A code in a cell can be just one line of code, can be like multiple lines of code. Those options are completely subjective and up to you on how you want to organize your. Now yeah, the next thing is we are also similarly wanting to do the same thing, which is tabulating the total price of the sofas as well. So you can once again use a prompt to do that. So the price of each sofa is 200 USD. Create a variable total price sofa that holds the correct total value. Now, one thing to note here, right? Like these requirements that we are prompting here are very simple, but even with very simple prompts, if you do not provide every single context to the agent, that will leave some room for ambiguity for the agent to fill in or you know make certain assumptions. As an example, if you don't give the variable name, right, and you just say like create a variable that holds the total correct value, the variable name may not always be what you prompted, like in this case, what we want it to be, right? It may come up differently. Maybe if you run it like 100 times, maybe two or three times, it'll be a bit different. So to ensure that you know your agent will generate like you know as precise as to what your expectation is, your prompt needs to ensure that it is as ambiguous-free as possible, right? Like you want to make sure your your prompt is very precise. It covers every aspect that where you want it, right? If you are okay with any variable name being used, then don't provide the variable name.

That's fine, but if you are expecting the variable name to be of a certain standard or a certain format, you should provide that information to your Gemini agent as well. That is very important. Yeah, and we will be taking a look into this, you know, ambiguity aspect very soon, right? Like, there's going to be a prompt that will actually show you when we prompted multiple times how it shows up with different, but yeah, we'll come to that. Now, yeah, then we are you know just evolving our requirements. So so far, what we did is we were able to update our stock inventory specifically for phones and sofas. We were able to you know tabulate the total cost of the existing stock. Now there is a question like you know what we know how to calculate the total price of the existing stock, but not of the initial stock. So how do we you know tabulate the total price of the initial we had? We know the unit price of a phone, and if you remember, we had initial phone stock size. We had it as 100, right? And we had assigned it a variable called phone underscore stock. Now I'm having a different variable called as initial phone underscore stock. I'm assigning 100 to that, and then I'm calculating a new variable called as total price before the sales, which is equal to the unit price into the initial phone stock. So again, we are not doing anything much graphing here. This is just basically you know manipulation of values with variables. That is what we are doing here. And once again, you can generate every single code in this notebook without having to you know know the format. You can just present your requirements to the Gemini flash, and it will do a pretty good job for you. Now, this is the equivalent way of prompting it for the same scenario. So here we did it for the mobile phone stock. Now we are asking the same requirement for stock, right? Or no, sorry, my bad. This is also for the mobile phone stock. So the price of each mobile phone is 150 USD. Create a variable that holds the correct value of the price of total phone invented before any sales were made. Use a well clear, well formatted print statement to show the total price of the phones. Same code written by AI prompt. This is the same code without any AI prompt. So as you can see, like you know, in simple cases, AI prompt works fine. Now, now we are going to you know change the scenario or evolve the scenario, right? So far, what we have discussed is that Wow Superstore has these two items: mobile phones and sofas, right? But in reality, like you know, your wow superstore is going to be selling so many different, like hundreds or 1000s of different items, right? Now, for each item, if I need to have a variable that will hold the detail of quantity, maintaining the variables across all these, you know, 1000s or hundreds of different items is going to be very tedious and very difficult for us. So, if someone says, "Hey, you know what? Phone got updated. Go update the phone stock variable. This item B got updated. Go to item B's stock variable. That figuring out and navigating and maintaining, you know, all the references for different variables and their values can become very tedious, so we need a better way to organize the data where we don't have to remember for every single object and entity its corresponding attribute. We don't want to have a single variable to store that. So this is where we come up with the concept of data structures. In Python, we have these different kinds of data structures. Basically, can think of data structure as like you know the it's more like a a collective entity which can hold not just one value but multiple values. One such kind of a data structure in Python is called as a list. So instead of having a variable hold one value, I can have a list hold multiple values. So here I'm going to introduce something called as a list of items that will contain all the items that my Wow Superstore sells. So let's say you know, while Superstore sells eggs, apples, mobiles, sofa.

I'm assigning all of them into a list. Now, when you print the list, it prints all the values of the list. Now that does seem understandable, but what if, as part of you know your organization, you want to specifically fetch one particular item in the list, because you may be interested in knowing what is the last item sold in our superstore, what is this particular item sold in the superstore, and so on. In that case, we have something called as list accessors, which you can do. So this is a list containing four items that the WAR Superstore sells. Now again, just note a few things like you know in this list you have these square brackets which are being used for the syntax. Again, as I mentioned earlier, you should you don't need to focus on the syntactical aspects of the Python coding, but just to you know give a distinction, right? Like you know, earlier we saw we were using the curd brackets whenever using the print. Now we are using something called as the square brackets, and the square brackets is usually meant to encompass values into a list, right? It's part of the Python syntax. Now within a list, if you want to specifically reference one or more values in that list. We will have to use something called as a list accessor. So to understand how the list accessor works, it's a very simple way. Like as you can see, the position values of these the item list, like X is in the first position, Apple is in the second position, Mobile is in the third position, and Sofa is in the fourth position. Now, in order to access the values, the value X from the list of items, you need to give it its index value, not its position. Now the index and position are very related to each other because the for a item in position one has the index zero. Item in position two will have the index one. Item in position three will have the index two. Basically, it is your position value minus one. That is what your index references for that particular item. Okay, so if you are looking to you know access or reference the apples in the list of items, you need to give items of one. Okay, the index value, not the position, but the index value. The index value is based on the position value, but it's not the same as the position value. So, this is a way by which we can access specific elements in the list. Now, the good thing is there is another way to also access this, and that is through something called as negative indexes. Now, the indexes that we mentioned earlier, the position indexes that we mentioned earlier, these are called as positive indexes. In Python, this is a part of the convenience of Python coding. You can also access the same elements through a negative indexing pattern for understand to understand how negative indexing is assigned. You start with the last item in the list, and it will be given the negative index values minus one. The second last item in the list will get a negative index of minus 2/3. last item will have a negative index minus three. Last item will have a negative index minus four. So if I want to access or reference the apple in the list of items, I can submit one, or I can use a negative index minus three. Both are valid ways to go about it, and that is what I'm showing here, right? So if I want to access apples, I can use either items of one or items of minus three. Both of them refer to the same item in the list of items. So that is the list accessing methods. Here you can see similarly we are giving a prompt, right? Again, you don't have to know the concept of negative indexes, positive indexes. You can just tell Gemini, hey, you know, just give me the last value in this item list, and Gemini will generate the code for you. So it's kind of very convenient, but you know, knowing that concept can potentially help you with debugging process. But you don't need to know it. Now we are again expanding the scenario.

Now let's say we don't we not only know the items that we have, but let's say you know there were like three orders being made, okay, and each of these orders concern an item of a certain category, and certain units were you know ordered for. So let's say I want to you know take this view right, like I want to generate this data of creating different lists. One list to hold all the order IDs, another list for you know holding all the categories and the list for holding all the quantities. So now, how do we go about this? You can prompt your Gemini agent create three lists named order ID, category, and quantity respectively with four values with respect to the superstore. Now, this is where the ambiguity in the prompt comes up. I am telling, hey, I want to generate three lists, order ID, category, and quantity. That is good. I am not specifying, and I am saying respectively four values. But what are those four values? Is there some format that is meant to be there in the four values. None of that is being explained, right? So if I open another cell and hit generate, and I give this prompt, and if I run this, very very likely, the values that were previously generated and what I generate right now, they're going to be different, right? And yeah, they turn out to be different. So let me just accept this. I'm not going to run it, but you can see the order ID has a different format. Instead of 1234 it has 100110021003 and so on. The quantity is also different, right? It's not aligned with each other, right? That is to be expected, of course, because these AI agents are not magicians to read your mind as to what you expect. If you don't articulate exactly like how you expected the order ID or category or quantity to be present, it will, you know, just put in its assumption and go ahead and generate the code. So this is like you know where the ambiguity of you know prompting begins to show. There are some more examples of this, but this is a scenario, right? Now we can make this a bit robust. So for example, we are changing our prompt now. Now in our prompt we are again once again asking to create three lists: order ID, category, and quantity, each containing four values. Now in addition to that, we are adding an extra constraint. We are also saying that a list named items is already defined. While creating the category list, ensure it aligns with the item list. Now, of course, we are not talking about the order ID formats, but rather very specifically, we are trying to target how the category values are being assigned. So we don't want the category values to be randomly assigned with something. Instead, we are asking it to look at our items list and align the category with the list of items. So, for example, eggs should have food category. Apples may have also food category. Mobile will be like technology. Sofa will be something like furniture, right? So, we just want to make our category aligned to the list of items. So, let's give this as a prompt, and let's see what comes up. Meanwhile, I see a question from Ratinard. So, which one is considered as per industry standards? Negative indexing, positive indexing. So generally, you go for positive indexing. Still want to use negative indexing because sometimes code large will require you to, you know, go for the last item. Again, going for the last item, you can do using positive indexing as well, but it's just more convenient to use a negative indexing over there, so it's generally positive indexing. But in certain scenarios, yeah, negative indexing works just fine. Okay, now you can see that our category. Let me accept it. So order it has is formatting 1005 1000 678, but you can see the category is now foot, food, electronics, furniture, which actually aligns with eggs, apples, both are food and food. Mobile is electronics, sofa is furniture, right? And quantity. Once again, we do not specify what the quantity should be, so it's again going to be quite random. Now again, just for the sake of continuity' sake, I'll delete the cell. I'll just keep the original cell and proceed with it. Right.

So you can see we are adding like not that this prompt is perfect. It is of course leaving a lot of room for the model to assume what the quantities are, what the order ID should be, and so on. But you can see that we added one extra layer of constraint to the prompt, and that changed the way how the prompt generated the code. So that is like you know a point to observe in this part. Now we were able to you know create three different lists that is now capturing the items, but the category of those items, the quantity of those items that were sold, and so on. Now we are going to go for even more, slightly more complex scenario, right? Now, let's say we want to know the number of items available for each product in a single glance, so. now, in this case, we have a slightly different thing. Like you know, in a single glance, that means without having to use multiple lists, how can I keep two values, like two different attributes? One is the item list, item name, and the quantity of the items. How do I organize them in a single variable? So with a list that was not possible, but now we are going to look into a new kind of a data structure, which is called as a dictionary. So let's start with the premise, right? Like we have to list the items and their respective quantities, but right now they are in two different variables or two different you know lists. How do we smash them into a single variable, right, or a single data structure? So that is where we have this concept of a dictionary. A dictionary, as you can see, it is based on these curved, sorry, curly brackets. These curly brackets, you can organize multiple attributes. Here, attributes being one attribute is the items, the other attribute is the quantity of the items. We can organize these multiple attributes into a key and a value structure. So, key and a value structure will look something like this. So instead of having two different lists, I am going to create a dictionary. A dictionary has once again, like you know, we have four elements or you know four different components. For each element or component, we will have a key and a value attached for that. In this case, we are setting the key as the name of the items, and the value will be the quantity of that particular item. But now, what we are doing is with a single variable, we are creating that. Now, the way we go about creating this dictionary from the lists, right? This is using something called as a for loop. Now there are different ways to go about this. Honestly speaking, like you know, you don't have to do a for loop itself, but the the idea behind this is we are going through a loop, and what the loop does is the loop will iterate through the list sequences. That means the iteration will start with the first item in the item list and the quantity list, and it'll take the item name, make it the key, and take the value and make it the or the quantity the value right it will do this repeatedly for each and every single item but it will go through a sequence that means it's iterating in a sequence okay that is what this particular for loop does I'm not going to go through the details of for loop syntaxes and all, it'll be like you know taking too much time, and I don't want to spend, as I said, like I don't want to spend too much time trying to bog you with all the details of the syntax because probably not where you should be spending most of your time. Understand the concept, like what loops enable you to do. Right, the idea of loops is basically you can go iterate through a sequence, or later on we'll see how we can iterate based on a condition. But you can do this iteration and perform a repeated operation multiple times. The repeated operation in this case is taking the key, the item name, and the quantity, and reassigning them as a dictionary's key-value pair. That is what we are doing.

Okay, so this diction, this for loop enables you to do that, and once you do that, the dictionary gets populated with the values. Now, in a single variable, in a single glance of a single variable, you have two pieces of information: the name of the items and the quantity. Unlike with lists, and that is how dictionary is like an evolution in terms of data structure capability, right? Like it's it's not like you will always use dictionary in every case. If you're only focused on a single attribute for a search, then you only need a list. If you're focused on attributes, then you can use a dictionary in case of in that case and not a list, so depends on the scenario when to use what. I see a question from Israul. So is prompt created in a text cell? No, it is being created in the code cell, right? So you create a code cell, and you hit the generate. This is a code cell, so that's generating the the this thing, right? And oh, and if you're asking about the prompt itself, that means this prompt, how they are displaying the prompt here, that is a text cell, right? So this in and of itself is a text cell, but where you provide the prompt is going to be in the code cell, right? This is again just for the sake of explaining, right? Now you can come up with your own prompt. It's not like the prompt explicitly; it has to be written in a text cell. You don't even need to note the prompt anywhere. This is just great learning, giving you a template of how the prompt should look like in a text cell. That's all, right? But yeah, we are storing or noting down the prompt in the text cell. Okay, now yeah. So same thing, right? You can see like I instead of writing about yourself, like you can prompt the entire thing based on the above-rated list. Show how many units are available for each product. So you just need to present that requirement as is, and then you know what, like Gemini will figure out. Hey, I need to use these two things. Person is asking how many units are available for each product, so I need to focus on the product and the unit quantity, right? And it is able to generate that same entire code. So again, which is why, like you know, I would say do not spend too much time on taxes. Just learn how to present your points. So. So, yeah. Now, when it comes to the loops, right? So we just discussed about these loops which go on a repeated fashion and do some operation. In our case, we use something called as a for loop. In Python, there are two different kinds of loops. One is called as a for loop. One is called as a while loop. For loop is when you use when you're trying to loop or iterate a sequence. That is when you use a for loop. So that means you have a sequence of values. You want to go through each sequence, each item in the sequence of values, and you want to do some operation. Like you want to add five to every number in a list, or you want to take each product in that list of items, and you want to maybe capitalize all the letters. So that is like you know you going through each element in the list in a sequence, and you want to do some operation. That's when you use a for loop. Now you have a while loop is a looping based on condition, so what do you mean by that, right? So here is an example. I have a variable, right? It has an initial value as zero. I want to keep incrementing the value of variable as long as its value is under five. The moment the values that variable's value reaches five, I will increment its value. In this case, there is not a sequence. There is a condition involved. The condition being, hey, check if the variable value is less than five. If it is less than five, increment the value by one. So by doing this, initially my variable value will be zero. Then I increment it to one.

Then it will keep looping, and in each loop I'm incrementing the value of the variable by 111, The moment it reaches equal to, it will terminate and it will just go out of the loop. This is called as a while loop. So the while loop is based on a condition. You're looping as long as a condition is true. The moment the condition is false, you will terminate the loop execution. Okay, so that is what a while loop is. Now we are going to talk about conditional statements. So we discussed our basics about the variables, data structures, both lists and, and we discussed briefly about loops. Now we are going to talk about how conditional statements, which is based on a condition, you want to execute a statement. So this is not the same as a while loop. While loop is also based on a condition, but a while loop is to do a repeated operation while that condition is true. In case of conditional statement, we are just you know looking at the condition once, and if the condition turns out to be true, your code will execute one logic. If the condition is false, be able to execute an alternative set of logic. That is what the conditional statement enables you to do. So we are going to take a look into that. So the scenario we are building on that is okay. We are trying to do a inventory process management. We want to ensure that all items are adequately stocked. Let's identify the quantity of the item. So we are once again going back. Not a very ideal situation, but yeah, we are once again going back to using the lists and talking a very different way about how we can get the quantity. Right. So earlier with the dictionary, they were able to understand their quantity in a single view, right? Now what we are doing is we are again going back to the list in a more rudimentary fashion. We are trying to see how we can look up the quantity for each item. So what we are going to do is till now you have seen how we access the value in a list, position it is present in. But what if, let's say, you know the Wow Superstore has 1000s of items, and you can't remember exactly which item is present in which position in the list. But there is a scenario where you know which item you're looking for that means you know the value you're looking for, but not the position it is in. Okay, earlier from the list accessor method, I showed you that if you know the position where you're looking for the value. So this is like a reverse lookup. So this is the origin lookup that we started with. Now we are doing a reverse lookup. If we want to go to items and we want to see is there any index that is pointing to the value mobile, right? We can use this kind of a method to get the index value, right? So this is the same index which we use to get the mobile through the position index. So what we are doing here is we are actually going to get the index for each of our items, like the eggs, mobile, and so on. Right? We get the position of eggs and mobile. We'll start with that, and now what we are doing is based on the index value we get here. We're taking that index value, going to quantity, and then getting its respective quantity. This is a more rudimentary way of getting the value from tool lists. Now, of course, earlier we did create the dictionary. You can very easily the dictionary. You can just simply do this product availability of eggs. Product available, and you can print it, and you'll get the value five, right? So you don't really need to do this two-step way of you know going to going to a list, getting the index, getting its respective position, then going to the quantity list and putting that position, getting its respective quantity right like that is not much to do about it. Usually you would want to arrange them in a dictionary and then very simply you can do this. This is much more you know meaningful, but we'll see.

Like you know again the reason why we are going back to the list is to kind of you know highlight how conditional statements can come into the picture. So that's the reason we are going for this. So, but at least I do not see necessarily what is being you know done here in terms of conditional statements. Yeah, I think this part is just a going for some reason. Again, you can kind of ignore this portion. What I just went through. Honestly, this is the only new thing it teaches you is if you are doing a reverse lookup on a list using an index. How do you go about it, right? Like that's the good thing because sometimes it makes sense that you know you do not know which position the item is present in the list, but you know what item you are looking for. That is when you will use this index function, right? So that can be a key takeaway. But we haven't done conditional statements yet. Now, for the conditional statements, the idea of conditional statement, as I mentioned earlier, if you have a condition or an expression that you can test for a condition, you can put that in a if statement. In the if statement, if your test expression valuates to true, that means that condition is true. What you put in there, then you will execute the body of the if statement. The body of the statement is basically some code that you want to run condition is true. If this condition turns out to be false, then you will go to the else block and execute the body of the else block. That is what a if else condition statement looks like. So, condition statement can be very helpful, like because in in coding, it's not the execution is not always deterministic. The the coding the path of the code may, you know, be based on some results or some issue in the prior steps, based on the outcome of the execution in the prior steps. That is when you will then make a determination how you want the code execution to go forward. So that is the scenarios where you will be using this kind of a conditional statement. Now. Now, here to now again to demonstrate the need for this, we are coming up with a new scenario. Let's say we have another four list of items. So previously we had examples, mobiles, and so far. Now we are having four items: binders, appliances, bookcases, and chairs. Now let's say each of these item has some discount. So, let's say there's some kind of like a promotional period offer that is being run on this Wow Superstore, and they are offering discounts for these various products. Now, let's say we have a requirement, and the requirement is we want to check which of these items have a high level of discount. That is a discount of greater than or equal to 50% and which items have a lower discount, which is like items less than 50% So by just observing the value, you can see that binders has less than 50% appliances more than 50% bookcases is equal to 50% chairs is less than 50% right? So we want to now write a code that can do this. Now, of course, one way is by prompting it, right? So a prompt that says for each item in the discount dictionary, check if the discount percent is more or less than 50% using a separate conditional statement for each element. Create two lists based on the discount percentage. So what we are basically doing here is that we are now going to iterate through each of the products? Okay, for each product, we will check if respective discount is greater than or equal to 50% Then we will add that product to a list. So we are maintaining now two lists. One list all greater than or equal to 50% A second list that will store all the products that have discounts less than 50% So this if statement checks if that item's discount is actually indeed greater than or equal to 50% If it is, we will take that product and add it to.

If it is not, if its discount is not greater than or equal to 50% then we will add that product with an alternate list, which is the discounts less than 50% So here you can see we are combining both the for loop and the conditional statement in one step, right? So I iterate through all the products, I'll check their respective discounts, and then I will, you know, assign it to one list or the other. So when you run this, oh sorry, I didn't sell. Yeah, as you can see, like I made a simple mistake, right? I did not run the cell earlier, and I went ahead and proceeded to run this cell, at which point the products was not defined. So I had to go back and you know kind of execute this, then come back here. So this is a very, as I mentioned earlier, like it's a very frequent mistake that can happen with notebooks if you're not keeping an eye on you know how you're executing the code, right? The order in which you're executing the code as well. So once we run this piece of code, you can see that we were able to correctly identify that hey, bookcases, appliances and bookcases both have discounts greater than or equal to 50% Binders and chairs are less than 50% So, like this is a simple way to go about it. Now there is another step being done here. I'm just going to skip through this portion because this is exactly the same thing that we are doing here, but without the for loop. So if you're doing without the for loop, you will go for item by item. For each item, you will fetch the discount and then get the value. Which I personally, as I mentioned earlier, like doesn't make sense to do this when you're learning the concepts when you're already come across a concept of for loop, you might as well use a for loop. So this part is kind of like a rehash of the same thing, but without the for loop. And you can see, like you know, if I did not use a for loop for each item, I'm manually you know getting the index and going and getting their respective discount and then running a separate if-else statement for each and every, which is very tedious. And this is how you know for repeated tasks like this, the for loop is very effective, right? I did not have to repeat the conditional check for each and every item. I just kept that condition code once in there, and then through the iterator, I was able to go through each and every item, and do the perform the same logic. So that is why, like you know, for loops are very effective. So I'm just skipping these two cells because they are doing the same thing, but without the for loop. Now, the second last thing that we are going to cover today is about functions. So what are functions? Now, functions in Python is basically when you have like you know some repeated code, like code which is being repeated over and over again in different scenarios, pretty much like what we just did, right? Then the repeated code, right? The repeated portion of the code, it can be put into a function that which you know repeated over and over. We will modularize that code and we will define it in a function so that I don't have to keep repeating that code logic over and over again. And instead, what I do is I'll define it in a function once, and all I need to do is then call that function wherever I want to, you know, reuse that same piece. That is the purpose of a function. Of course, in the earlier step I did here, I did not use a just use a for loop and a condition statement. Now we are going to look at a very similar scenario, but how do we deal that with that using a function. So now to define a function, right? There are some rules about how a function can be defined. So for defining a function, you first need to use a keyword called def or define, and then every function needs to have a name.

So when you're going to like you know, give this redundant code logic or the duplicated code logic. You want to club it under one particular name, and that name is a function name. Then, after you execute the set of statements in the function, your function has a capability of returning the output of that function's execution as well. So after a function, you know, does some steps, you have the option of you know returning some kind of a value back to the point in the code which called the function. So that is what a returns. And finally, for every function, there is a set of parameters. Now, parameters are basically like you know customizable values can be sent to these parameters, and by sending the values to the parameters, you can alter the way the statements in the function are being executed. Now, while these terms may not, they may sound a bit too hazy and confusing to follow through. Better to go through an example to see how that works. So let's say we have a new scenario: is we have our items and our categories, right? Very often, you know, customers may be coming in and asking the Wow Superstore representatives about, hey, which which category will I find you know eggs in? Which category will I find sofa in? Which category will I find you know mobile? Right, and these representatives they need to you know present the answer like you know yeah X is in the food section, mobile is in the electronic section, and so on. Now is the way we can automate this like you know having a function that can easily take in the item name as a parameter. It will fetch its corresponding category and return the mapped category back as an output. Can we do that? Right. Like that's what we're going to take a look at. So here is a function. Now, one. You know what? I am just going to. Yeah. Let's start with this. This this is the basic function, right? So yeah, you can of course draft this function based on a prompt. So you can see there's a prompt called as based on the above, create a Python function called get category. Now when we say above, you may above lists. Maybe you can say based on the list of items and categories, I want to create a Python function called get category. That as an input exists, it returns the item and the corresponding category in a list. If the item is not found, it returns the item and item not found text in the list. Okay, so this is a simple function that we have. Now let me go back about it here. So when you run this piece of code, right, it doesn't do anything. You can see I ran the code, but there was no output over here. That's because it's just a function definition. I haven't triggered the function or used the function. Now, if you want to see when I how I like you know if I use the function, for example, if I call get category, right, and let's say I'm doing a category for x. okay. You can see I was able to get the output for eggs, the corresponding category is food, right? So we asked it to return the corresponding category as well. So that's why we have eggs and food. Similarly, if I give it for you know apples, right? So all I'm doing is I'm changing the parameter value. I don't have to rewrite this entire line of value and everything. Just by changing the parameter value, I am able to you know get its corresponding category, right? So this is very convenient thing. So I am reducing the need to rewrite the same code for each and every item. Okay. Now let's say I give it some value, like you know, let's give it, give me my name, right? I'll just put in my name in here, and you can see correspondingly saying item not found. Now since there are some, like I developed a functionality, right, and I specifically used a AI assistant to develop this functionality. Now, the thing is, as I mentioned originally, these AI assistants they can be fundamentally flawed, right?

Like they can have so many issues in them, so it is important to validate the functionality that you generate in the with the AI assistant, and based on the value, they need to make certain fixes. Okay, so to how do we go about that process, right? Let's say I reach this particular point in my code where I gave a prompt and the agent generated this code. But now I want to be sure: Hey, was this code that was generated by the AI agent meaningful, sensible? Does it work, or should I make some enhancements? So to go about that, for the first step, which is the validation step, now one way. one way is you put the scenarios that you want to validate. For example, like you know, just adding a textile for a reference, right? Like, what are the different things you want to validate for? Is it correctly getting the the category for an item that actually exists, right? We this is a simple test case, and we saw that it was working. When I did get category with eggs, it did work, but in addition to this, like we want to test other scenarios, and then we also want to check: is it correctly stating that item is not found is not found when you provide an invalid item, right? So, like something like you know, let's say table. It correctly said item not found. So those are two scenarios which we know it worked. But there could be a third scenario if you provide a case sensitive different input. Will it correctly get the category? So what I mean by that is, like, instead of giving eggs, I'm going to give it just capital E X. If I run this, you can see my checking of the values is not case sensitive, right? I the moment I change small e to caps e, it was not able to search correctly for the item. So, as you can see, like what I'm doing here is for my validation, I come up with the different scenarios for validation. Now, this process of coming up with the different scenarios of validation it can be done manually, but at the same time, you can also ask the AI assistant to help you with that. So let's take a look at how I'm going to delete this cell. But now what I'm going to do is I am going to create a new cell, generate with AI, and here I'm going to say, can you generate test cases for the get category function? Get category function also include edge cases where the function may fail, right? So I'm asking Gemini to generate the test cases for me. Let's see how it does. And this below is like a sample output of how that would look like. Let's try to you know run it in real time and see. So, okay, let's accept it and let's go through the scenarios one by one, right? So, first scenario, a valid item, mobile, case insensitive valid item another Apple okay valid item with different casing mobile with capital M then laptop which is not found chair which is not found empty string that means we don't give any proper input or we give a null value. Null value means also it's not the same as empty string. Null value is like there's no value at all, not even an empty string. How do they work, right? So I'm going to now do a print for all of these. You can now see how the output looks like. For mobile, I was able to get it correctly. For Apple's, I was correctly. Mobile with a capital M, I got as item not found. Laptop, the item genuinely doesn't exist, so it's item not found. Empty string item not found. Null value item not found. So we are fine in like what was intended. At least we are covering. But let's say you know something is bugging me, right? I look at this particular scenario, and I'm like, this should be very easy to do, right? Like I'm having just a case insensitive check. Why don't I? Sorry, I have a case sensitive based check. Why don't I make it like you know case insensitive check? So how do I go about that? So this is where we are going to now go back to now.

If you know Python code and you want to make the fix by yourself, you can absolutely do that, right? You can manually make the change here. However, you can ask the AI to make the change. So, if you go to this cell, if I go to the AI features and I hit transform code, here now I'm going to ask: Can you make this function item or category lookup functions? Category lookup case insensitive. Okay, so now what happens is the Gemini will take its time, evaluate this existing code, and will actually attempt to make this code, you know, actually run. Okay, so we can see it made some changes. so it force it forces the item you're searching for into lowercase. So even if you provide a capital M mobile, it will force it into lowercase. It is also making a lowercase of the items that we have. So it's kind of like standardizing everything into lowercase, and then it is doing the check. So that is what this new function does, so it's doing the same functionality, but I have enhanced it for case insensitive base check. So now I'm going to rerun my test cases, and this time, you will see for mobile with a capital M, I'm able to get electronics as well, right? So this is how you can use your AI assisted agents to validate. Like right now, I did not write a single line of code, right? And earlier, even though manually I did come up with test cases, I showed you how with the AI assistant I was able to come up with the test cases to do the validation. So I did the validation completely manual. I manually made the decision to enhance the function to make it case insensitive based check. That was my determination. But other than that, all the steps I used to reach that pointer determination was through an AI assisted coding platform. I did not write a single line of code for that. Right. So this is how you know you can actually use your AI coding assistance. You don't need to know the language like the Python code without knowing that as well. You are able to you know get the functionality. Now, as you can see, we have used AI coding assistance not just to generate the code, to transform the code to also you know write test cases and validate the code and so on. There's one more thing where you can use this AI assistant, right? Like for here, can you add like you can see that we have added some comments, right? Like the comments kind of describe what is happening in that line of code. But let's say you know I want to make this function more descriptive, like what happening at every step. I want to make it more descriptive, so I can ask: Can you add detailed inline comments to describe the functionality? in the get category function. So inline comments are these green lines that you see, right? Like these are the comments which basically when compiler runs across them, they they just sort of doing. So, yeah, it says it has added some things, and you can see like the comments are now more descriptive, right? So, it was able to successfully do that. So, as you can see, like you know, we are able to use the AI assistant to help better to add more explainability to the code as well that it generated. Different ways you can do so. You can run this, and you can then once again run the test cases to make sure that everything is running as expected. So so far so good, right? So I think that covers that section. The remaining parts are pretty much, you know, repetition of the same points over and over again. So I won't be going through that. Now the last section that I want to cover. So we have now covered functions. Now there are in that two sections actually. One is about loading the CSV data that we earlier downloaded, and there's one more section about classes and objects. I will not be covering classes and objects in today's session because this topic, in and of itself, is an extremely complex topic.

At least for you know programming beginners, it will take a long time to explain this, maybe another hour or so, so I'm not going to you know do that, and also this section will not play a very crucial or for your program as well. Like you will be using periodically classes and objects, but not to a very great degree where you need to like really know it. And it's okay. Like you can take your time. I would encourage you to take your time outside of the session later to see if you can go through it. But even if you're not able to do so, it's perfectly fine. You won't have to, you know, worry about not knowing classes and objects. But again, I won't be covering it in today's session, owing to you know how complex and large topic is in and of itself, so I'll just you know finish wrap up the session with loading the data, and then if you have any you know further questions and all, I'll be taking up on those right. So let's start with the loading of the data right now. When we say loading the data, what that means is till now, whatever we did, we simulated our own data inside the Python environment, right? Like we were writing our own lists, we came up with our own values. Now, Great Learning actually has provided. They actually have provided the CSV file, right? If you remember that I mentioned earlier, so you can actually download. Once you download that CSV file, let me show you how that file looks like, or the values in the file look like. So this is what that file has. So it has like all these order DT order. What is the shipping mode? What was ordered? What is the category of the items that were ordered? What is the sales value and so on? Right. So we have this basic information over here. Now, this is information that resides outside our Google Collab environment. How can I load that file into my Google Colab environment? Right. So that's what we're going to look at. Now there are two ways to so two ways to load a CSV or some data file, external data file into Google Colab environment. One is you can go to this files section that you see over here. Okay, this is basically the file folders that is present on the server to which you're connected to. The server meaning the server that powers your Python runtime. Okay, so this is the file system of that. You can manually upload the CSV file in here. Okay, so what I did is I just dragged the CSV file from my Windows Explorer into my file system in my collab. Let me just rename this and remove all those two and one values. Yeah, so this is one way. Like I can upload the file in here, and then when I come to my code, right? You can see I'm writing a code. I'm importing a library. So I'm importing a library called as pandas. Pandas library basically is a library that enables you to load a CSV file from the file folder structure into a variable in my Python memory. Okay, so the pandas library does that. So the step of importing pandas as pd, this is how you know I'm kind of importing that library and all its capabilities, and then I'm using that pandas library is one capability or a function. It's just the read or disco CSV. And to that, if I give the path of the file which I'm trying to load, it will correctly load that value. So this is the path to my file. Like you can see, this is slash content. The reason for content is because in the server, this is the home page or root directory of my server, and in that root directory, there's something called as content, and there's this Wow Superstore present in that, right? So this is what I'm going to load. By doing this, you can see I I was able to successfully load the data. You see, I'm able to print and visually look at the data in my environment, right? So the same data which I was able to visually inspect in my Microsoft Excel on my local machine, now I am able to view it in my Google Collab environment.

Okay, so this is one way to load the data. There is an issue with this method which I just described. See, I dragged and see Py file in here. If you disconnect, not this. If you disconnect your session, right, or your session gets terminated for some reason, like you walk out of your room, you went to have like you know lunch after one hour, when you come back, because you are in an idle state, the Google Collab session will, you know, kind of to save its resources, it will terminate the session. Or if you explicitly, you know, disconnect and terminate your session, what happens is this file, right, will get out of the memory because they don't want your specific data files, so they purge it out of the memory, and the next time you reconnect, and if you rerun this code, this file will not be present, and this code will fail to execute. So what that means is there's no permanent persistence of data in your Google Colab servers. So the other option is having the file in your drive, because your Google Drive is a permanent persistence of this data, right? What I'm now going to do is my alternative option. I'm going to mount my Google Drive. Right now, your Google Drive is a separate entity. Your Google Collab is a separate entity. I'm going to mount my Google Drive into my Google Colab server machine, so we have a code for that. That is what we are going to do here. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to mount my Google Drive into my collab server, and then I'm going to give the path of the file present present in my Google Drive now, so that is what this path is. But let me show you how this works, right? So when you run this code, you can see there's a it asks for permission to you know for the Google Collab to access your Google Drive. So you can hit connect, accept, and give the permissions. And this will take like a bit of a time. And once it is done, I'll just show you like how the Google type gets in your Google's collab server. Yeah, yeah. So you can see this mounted. You can see my Google type got mounted, and you can see a new folder appeared over here. Drive, right? This drive is basically my Google Drive. Sorry, yeah, my Google Drive. Okay, now once you reach this My Drive, right? It is basically following the exact format in which you know your Google Drive is organized. So in my case, it in in a particular fashion to reach the CSV file. So you give content slash drive, then you can copy the path as it is in your Google Drive and provide it in here. Okay, so this is another way to go about loading the data. So two ways to load the data, both reach the same point, which is you know the data gets successfully loaded into the Python memory. The advantage of this thing is that I don't have to every time upload the CSV file into the Google Colab service. My file is always present in my Google Drive. It's a permanent storage, so you don't have to worry about that, right? And yeah, yeah, that kind of concludes the point about loading the data. Now, what you do after loading the data, that part is again up to you. Like you know, you have many ways to go about it. This is you can do data analysis now. Like the pandas, right? This pandas mentioned earlier. It allows you to perform many kind of statistical analysis on a tabular data, right? So once you load a tabular data into a variable, now this variable that you have here, it is not a dictionary. It is not a list. It is a specific kind of a new data structure which you haven't encountered till now, and that is called as a data frame. Okay, so this is a data frame structure, whereas until earlier organizing data in lists and dictionaries. So this data frame is something new. Again, you don't have to know this for today's session. It's okay. Like the point was only to show you how to load the data successfully. That's pretty much it.

You don't have to know about how to analyze the data and so on. The classes and objects does do some data manipulation with all this data, but again, as I said, I don't want to cover that portion in this time period, right? Like we will not be able to go through it in a meaningful manner, so we can you know skip that. You can see what this pandas right. Like I'm able to perform various operations. Like if I want to view the first five records in my data frame, or I want to view the last five records in my data frame. If I want to easily see the number of columns and rows in my data, I can quickly do this. In fact, like you know, if you want to get a basic statistical analysis of my data, right? I have a function in that called as describe. Also, again, once again, you don't have to know all these functions. It's perfectly fine. You know, kind of showcasing the capability of this pandas library. So here you can see I'm using this describe function, and for the numerical columns in my include sales, quantity, discount, and profit. I can get all statistical measures of it, like what is the average value, what is the standard deviation, the min, max, 25th, 50th, 75th percentile values. Right, I'm able to very easily and quickly get those values. So this pandas like exceptionally good statistical analysis package, but also it is meant to help you load data into the memory as well, right? So that kind of you know covers the point that we have in this section, and with that, I'll be concluding this case study, right? So now, yeah. If there are any questions, I will answer those questions for the next few minutes, like 510 minutes. Can you close the session? I do see we are only we only have three more minutes pending. So again, if people want to drop right away, feel free to drop because again, recording will be available. So the Q and A session, you will have access to it if you want to you know watch it later. So I don't want to you know hold all of you back. But anyone who is interested or want to ask more questions, I will be available for another you know five to 10 minutes. So first things first. Let me thank you all for joining in for today's session. Again, as I said, the most not to go through all the details of Python programming and knowing all that, but more importantly, to you know understand what are the capabilities of Python programming and how to use AI-assisted coding agents to help you achieve the same, right? Okay, I see a few questions in the Q and A box. So, question from Udaya: What's the data type of the data variable where we loaded the CSV file data? Is it list or dictionary? Yeah, as I mentioned, going to be the data frame, right? So that is going to be the data. It's a new, unique data type. Question from Israul: What is the limitation of storage size of data frame for holding the data? There is technically no limitation. That's the only limitation is going to be based on the RAM memory, right? Because all these Python variables are being loaded into the memory of your server. So, whatever the memory of the server is, that is the upper limit of the data frame size as well. And you see that you will get out of memory error, and the code won't execute any further. So, that physical memory is the technical limitation that you have. Okay. any other questions? Ah, question from Shiva Kama: Do we use data frames more in AI coding at later point? You you do use it at some point because like some places we do want to organize now in a tabular fashion, whenever you want to organize data in a tabular fashion, you would prefer to use data frames, lists, and dictionaries. On the other side, they will be more often used because these are like more fundamental data structures which you will use. Like when you're trying to tackle any problem, right? It involves organizing data sometimes in like lists or a dictionary format, so it's where more likely you'll be using lists and dictionaries than data frames.

But you will also be here and there, you know, referring to data frames once in a while in this program as well. But you don't have to know, like it's we mostly use it for organizing the data, but you don't have to know all the statistical analysis, right? Because again, this program is not focused on the statistical analysis of anything. It's more focused on the agentic AI coding. So, from that perspective, you will be still using pandas to store and organize the data, but not for the actual statistical analysis portion of it. Okay. Any other questions? Can I use AI assist in my project for generating code? You can absolutely use it. There is no limitation. It is an integrated AI program, so feel free to do that. Of course, you know. Try to like. You do want to exercise caution as to how much how much freedom you want the AI agent to use, you know, when generating the code, right? Like, don't just give it like open little thing, like you know, complete my project. Try to you know use the AI as starting coding in this way that we went through, right? Like component by component, then you give like the instructions, let it generate the code. Then you give the instructions to validate it. Look at the validation. Then, if you need to fix it, give the instructions to fix it. Right? Like go in that methodical manner. That way, you are not losing too much control. You are not giving too much control to the AI assistant to do the things. Instead, you still retain a lot of control as to how the code is being generated, so that would be that is again you can attempt to do like you know this one shot prompting and getting everything done, but that's not the right way to do things in real world projects. That is a more unrealistic way of going about you know writing code for projects. So it's better to know how to break down your code into smaller components and then query. Question from Shivakumar: As part of the upcoming projects, can we use AI prompts to code and submit the product? We use also like more clarity and direction on this. Yeah. Again, as I said, like you know, you can use for the projects you can use AI prompts. But again, the way you go about prompting the AI agent, that kind of matters. Again, see the from the scoring the the project scoring perspective, they just score you on the functionality. If you're able to achieve the functionality, you're good, right? How you go about prompting the AI and getting that is completely up to you. And like my general recommendation is, don't go like one-shot prompting the entire project. Instead, try to take it part by part, and then each part you'll go through the cycle of asking the agent to generate the code. Then, after it generates the code, you will review the code. You can you can then validate the code using the AI, right? Like meaning you'll ask the AI to create test cases for you. Evaluate the output. If there are issues or gaps, give that as feedback to the AI assistant and ask you know hey can you update or modify the code so that this issue is taken care of, then let it do the changes. Then you should be good, right? Like that exchange, there will be like a couple of exchanges back and forth, and after that you should have a proper, well working, functional code. So try to you know follow through that path, and that will give that path will give you the best balance between automation of code and control on how the code is being generated. With that one-shot coding, you know you may your agent can make a lot of mistakes, and then it is going to be very difficult for you to go one by one and you know fix every issue. Instead, go module or component by component. Test everything as you go. Right. That way you are building a very strong foundation as you progress towards the project. Question from Rashmi. When when I tried search. Google. Com. I get a notebook window by the window menu, the blue menu where you can select tools. You mean the commands is that what you mean?

You're not able to. So if you go here, first thing is this view may be a bit different for you and like because I have subscription that may change, but otherwise I think you should see all the other things right like the commands. These things should all be present from at least what I understand. What will change is you know the content that you see in here that will be a bit different, but otherwise everything else should be same. Yeah. Again, if you have some specific issue that you are not able to see, just let me know. I'll try to maybe clarify that. But post your question again. You know, with the specific. I see a question from: Is there any best practice you recommend while working project in collab, like variable declarations in code cells and functions in another cells and execution area? Yeah, I mean, you can organize. Of course, that it is better to you know make it more modular, but it doesn't mean like all the like one function should only be in one cell. You we usually the way I go about organizing the cells, I break the project into like components. Like you know, I'm trying to build a chatbot, let's say, to serve the customer support. My chatbot will have different components. For example, one component to look up the customers' data, and one component, let's say, to you know, like evaluate or generate a response. One component to evaluate a response, and so on. Right? I'll have different components. Now, each component to solve each component, I make multiple functions, like maybe five functions for you know fetching the data, three functions for generating a response, two functions for evaluating the response, and so on. Usually, what I'll try to do is like each component I'll try to put it in one cell. So one cell can have like you know many lines of code in it, right? You can. can like that is one way to go about it. Right, the way I generally decide is how at what level you want to do the testing because if you're doing testing and testing at a component level makes sense, but if sometimes you may want to do testing at a very individual function level. If you think that is how you want to do it, then that function should be in its own cell, because the idea is when you're doing testing, you'll be executing or running that function periodically, right? So then, it is good to have that function in its own cell that way, so that the other cells are not other functions are not being specifically treating one function. The way I go about with AI assisted based coding is that I will have all the functions relating to one in one, and I am going to do the testing at the component level. Which means if I'm doing changes, they may be across all those different functions that encompass this one component, right? So that is the way I would generally group things. Now, of course, in today's session, we made it like super modular, which is not realistic. Like you're not going to, you know, put one behind one cell and the variable assignment, the cell. That is like very like unnatural. Like it's, but this is mainly meant for demonstration purpose, so that we can you know convey the points very easily to you. That's why you can see like you know variable assignments in one cell. Usually, like all the functionalities concerning a component will be present in one cell. That is a good way to go about it. Question from Shiva Kumar: If we say modularize the code, then we may have to use classes more. Please let me know when. Can I expect a live session on classes? You will be modularize. You'll focus. You'll. We are focusing on. See, you can write code in two ways. You can go through code through purely functional coding, meaning you don't have to have classes and objects. So there is a way to go about you know doing functional coding, purely functional coding. At least Python supports that, so you don't have to know about classes and functions. But again, can help also when you go through the object-oriented program. Now, regarding classes and objects, there's not going to be a dedicated session anymore about classes and objects.

But, but as I said, you can try to you know take your time, go through the notebook. It does a decent job of explaining. But also, again, I would say like it's better to you know take the time because classes and objects is not a very like can learn very quickly. It is somewhat easy, but it needs time to understand. So what I would recommend is you know try to find other external sources. You can go through this notebook. This notebook does do a pretty good job of you know trying to explain you know classes and objects through the explanation. So you can go through the notebook because they have you know explanations as well. You may be able to understand it, but recommend you know try to go for some external sources as well, like maybe YouTube videos that explain in Python, so that you took hang of it. Right now, once again, I, as I mentioned earlier, you do not really need to know classes and objects a lot for the purpose of this program because one, we don't use it that much. The second is you can always use AI-assisted coding to just present your requirements, and they will determine, you know what, whether classes and objects make sense to be used, and they will generate it for you. So you don't really have to like when you're you know going to AI assisted coding, you're not going to give AI assisted coding for each line of code. You're going to give the AI assisted coding at a component or a functional level. That function component, whether it needs a class or object, can be made. That determination can be made by the AI assistant. So in that way, you don't have to really worry about the fact that you know what I don't know classes and objects because the how things are done can be taken care by the AI assistant. So that way you can decide whether you want to spend the time to learn classes and objects. But I generally do recommend you don't need to spend that much time. You can like if you are a beginner to Python programming, iter to focus on how to code with the AI assistant than using classes and than trying to learn classes and objects from scratch, right? But if you are interested in still going and learning in classes and objects, go through the notebook. Additionally, try to go through some external sources like a YouTube video. That will help you truly, you know, understand this. Question from Rashmi: The left tab where I can see Gmail collab tools. How is it displayed on your screen where you dragged and dropped? Oh, for that you need to expand this section. So when you go to the origin section view, right? There's this view called files. There are like some aspects of debugging tools and things like that. So that's what that you need to expand the toolbar. So this is like let's call this as you know the left side toolbar, right? You just need to expand the left side toolbar to view that. So yeah, yeah, the view should be same though. Like from what I understand. So once you expand the files toolbar, what will happen is it will connect. Like once you are connected to a proper runtime, then you can you know drag and drop things into this file, right? And then you have like some other toolbar. One is for storing your secrets. One is for capitating. Explorer, like you know, you have some different things. Like some of these things do help with debugging, so you can use those also. But to know about them, at least right now, the most important thing which you'll be very commonly using, I would say, is going to be the files and the secrets. These two things you'll be very frequently use them, but the other things depends on how much time you want to spend on debugging and things like that. You may use them. Okay. All right. I think I have taken quite a lot of time now, so have a great rest of the day, everyone, and maybe I'll see you all down the line sometime in the future. Thank you. Also, praise you. I mean, three feet. Okay, go ahead.

What? Did you

just apply?

Yeah.

Well, when I started teaching, they emailed you. Oh yeah. They may have. Yeah. Is it coming something? I think all down. Hello, everybody. Do we? Sorry, Jenny. You get me? You kill me. Yeah, you want to see me? She told me that before. Where you get your notes, man? And then you can

do. I can't believe it. We have a golden lucky game.

I don't have to see that because you also did. So far, have you come close? Even Ross is close. Now, she's in wine wedgies and chocolate wedgies. I'll be back

in a little bit. Watch. No, give yourself time. I don't need this. Yeah, no, I don't.

Do I realize this last stuff and how this side stuff is well?

Times Square without any stones, and then I was in my own room. That's so big

that actually makes our tools slow. It's not that bad. It wants to fight and learn. I'm sorry that I've been listening. Oh, they must do you. That's why you do. So, actually, Sure.

Just coffee. So cute. My friend ordered. and I ordered the ice cream. Michel,

Mary, my. Disagree with us. Everybody knows. Don't make me come on the submissions. Number,

concept, machine, moving, partner, and. You feel like holding off the cilantro and everything. Oh, sure, cilantro, everything. I'm gonna fill it for you as

soon as she'll support it. Are we supposed

to? Jonah, I'm sorry

if I ask somebody. Yes, men who forget they are facing. You know them. Okay, professor and the state.

Especially my. my mother.

Yes, I'm not going to get any problems. Well, you said that we sent the discovery card, which made you ask. I say, I know who, and then. Your very first taste of tomato juice. Your shirt pocket. You already tell me, that tastes good. Where do you come? those videos, I want to show

you

which is like very. Not just a grief. I hate crimes. They are not tears of sadness or failure. I just took behind this decision. Do you want me to finish? All of those things that you send me in, look at you won't even end up when I'm very resistant. I just want to pack up my desk, and I will be gone before the end of the day. Saddle along the back. That's why I said all those things. I'm sorry. Oh my God! Great position for developmental interest on this department. You've got the job. You've got the job for me to tell me. It's okay to tell me then that I can't be all the way for the business.

You're the cook. You have a few and two feet driving up to people's houses and can't be turning fancy money.

Pizza. Stuff in this area, like in the field, if you don't want to

deliver, you don't want to deliver.

She's leaving work. She's behind me. Oh, I can't believe it.

Yes, yes, you're sick. So excited about

anyone

that's on wood. Although I can feel

bad about having fire chef people, it is like now. Want somebody? No, I'm not. Damn. Everybody, Christmas, please.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
