Recording in progress.

Hey guys. Good morning. How's it going? Okay, I hope you can hear me loud and clear. There's a reflection on my end, so good morning, Shiva. Just give me a sec. Just want to make sure the lightning is proper so that you don't see a reflection. Just bear with me. Sorry about the delay.

Just close.

Perfect. Okay, so let's get started. Hope you can see me down here. Good day, sweetie. Perfect. So let me share my screen. Let's get into the weeds of it. Sorry about the last week; it was emergency, so I have to travel. Things are sorted now, so hope things hope everyone is doing well as on their personal front as well. So let's get into it. Okay, great. So where we are, we will be starting today with week two, which is I'll say MCP, little bit on the tooling and memories, right? So interesting topic. I think most of you are using ChatGPT, Cloud, you know whatnot. So you have seen those sessions on the left side, right? So is it like a short term? Is it like a persistent storage? We'll talk a little bit on the high level on those things, and then most important concept, which is MCP model context protocol, right? How agents can, you know, access, you know, databases or any other data data source without explicitly authenticating it every now and then, right? I'll go slow. I think just making sure that you can listen me and make the value of my words as well. Okay, just understand. So I'll go slow for sure. So yeah, in a way, like I said, the agenda for today is most importantly MCP model context cluster calls. So we'll do a deep dive. Just firstly, just warming up a bit in terms of what MCP is, how agents can access you know external data sources, what they can do on your behalf, right? Without every time writing an API or you know doing doing I'll say API calls to the external world. I also taken an example apart from our great learning, of course, like what I do in my day-to-day work, right? So just covering the productionization part of it as well. Like when I have to create a new branch, or when I have to understand what I have done in this, what what is what is the content on these branches, right? I can use GitHub, or I'll say in my workplace GitLab. But I'll take an example today, so I'll share that notebook also with you at the end of the session to just touch base on the productionization part of it, right? Like on the real world, what we do, how do we use it? Okay, so I'm going to share that, of course, at the end. But like I said, let's explore this together. Do like two minutes, few minutes, quick brainstorming, and then we will cover the deck, which you can see on the screen, and then covering another, I'll say one hour and a half hour for on the on the on the case study. And at the end, like I said, if I have some time, I'll cover the MCP example with GitHub as a productionization thing, and the second part, which I also want to cover today a little bit again hands-on, is using Langsmith visualization tool. So, what does that mean? Is like, let's say you're not a let's say you want to give a tool to a subject matter expert, right? Who can actually see at each stage what agent is doing, what's the input, what's the output. But let me show, let me quickly show you up that tool again. We'll do a deep dive, so nothing to worry on that, right? This is this will be coming eventually in your projects. I think last two or three weeks before the end of the of the course, but this is important to understand like what's happening at each step. So let's say if we are making three or four agents, right? Or let's say we have one agent and we have multiple dudes. So I want to understand at each step what's going on. Okay, so here you can see you have the input, what's the output here, right? So that this explicitly tells you like it's very easy to troubleshoot. It's like a logs, right? Traces. That's what we call it in in agentic system. So traces are like your logs at each stage. What have happened? What's the input? What's the output? And you can also evaluate the performance of the agentic systems, right? So we will gradually go there. But just to give you a a gist of this is what we do in a day-to-day work, right?

Using agents, so this can again be a good stepping stone in your learning. Okay, again, this is not a mandate at all, so you don't have to learn it from scratch. To be honest, I have just added it for your curiosity to understand more, but you can completely ignore it. Like that's why we want to keep it in the end of the session, right, so that the people who maybe want to learn it, great, don't want to learn it, don't have to emphasize on that. Okay, so I'll cover these mini, small, effective things, right, which can think like more like a machine learning engineer, right, because nowadays it's not only about learning the things, right? How you apply it in your native work, right? That's where these things will definitely help you. Okay, so with that being said, no more surprises. Let's get into it now. Let's do some brainstorming real quick, right? And then we can definitely go into the weeds of the presentation, right? So first question for you guys: What exactly is MCP? I already have given a a quick introduction of it, but want to understand from your side what MCP does. What's the beauty of MCP that differentiates from other you know traditional orthodox connections or You know, world. Any any any takes any takes on it? Anyone? You don't have to speak up because you started on chat. If that's fine, like I said, just want to brainstorm right a bit. If I ask you why MCP, what MCP can do, which other traditional tools or which other traditional methods can't you know implement or what's the limitations of those processes? Okay, make a plan to use multiple tools to yep makes sense. Various tools is a common protocol. Yep, spot on RCP. That's what we call it. Just an RCP. Good one. Usability of two across multiple agents. Yes, so I think you did your homework well. Yep, that's very important. So think of it this way, right? I just need one protocol or one method to connect to different, you know, tools, data streams, okay, databases in simple terms, right? Like I don't want to write every time some code to connect to different data sources. Let's let me give an example. Like, let's say you are Airbnb, right? So you are doing your you are calling a payment API, you are calling streaming API, you are calling a content API, you are calling a personal recommendation API. Because as a person, you will recommend some content to me, right? So at the same time, you're doing four to five tool calls. Okay, so why you want? Are you going to write the same code for five for calling? I mean, you are going to write five different codes to connect to five different services. Of course not, right? You just need one way. So think of it like a USB-C. That's how I explain MCP, right? Like USB-C can connect to your iPhone, can also connect to your Android phone, can also connect to your Windows phone, right? So think of it like different phones are different tools, but you're just using one adapter. Okay, so it's like a universal charger you can think of, which can work with all the phones. Okay, so yeah, that's a good one. Intelligent adapter to express things, predicted. Yep, job spot on. That's what Zachary answers. That's great. So, anyone used MCP in any of those in any of their workplaces before? Like, if there is any great these companies are pushing it, right? Like, you have to have MCP, you know, installed or anyone have used it actively, passively, or edit somewhere. How can we do? How can we connect with the MCP, right? And I'll give you an example. Like I said, this notebook. Since we are talking about MCP, I'll definitely share this at the at the end of the session, right? But here you can see this is a GitHub MCP collab. Okay, I'll cover it at the end in detail. But I'm just taking a simple example here, which will help you to understand what I'm doing here. Is on a very high level, I'm going to my GitHub. Okay, I have a GitHub. It's very small GitHub for now.

Okay, so what I'm doing here is let's say as a developer, I want to know what all branches I have, okay, or what work I have done in the past. So how can I get all those commits? Or let's say I want to get a new branch with a new feature, okay. So I'm not going to do it manually. I'm not going to type the commands and do it right, like git push and all that stuff. So this GitHub MCP, I'm going to connect to GitHub MCP, right? I can quickly show you some lines here. This is all the code. So I'm going to share this again. I'm going to go to the boilerplate side of things, right? I'm quite explaining each and every line because that's not a mandate here. But most importantly, if I quickly show you, this is what I'm going to do, right? So this is my GitHub account. This is my branch. This is my actual repo, right? I'm creating a new branch with test 02. We're going to run this in the end, not now. Okay, but the idea is that yes, can we create a new branch? Okay, without even going there. So I'm going to connect to a GitHub MCP server. It will authenticate me with a personal access token. Okay, of course we need some way to authenticate, right? You just can't blindly give access to any third person, right? So there is a PAT which you are going to generate. But most importantly, if you see here, right, the URL. I want to quickly want to show you here. Get access token, and most important part here is where is my yeah. Let me show you the repo the the URL name GPT four mini that just give me a sec I want to make sure we have the URL here MCP okay should be here yeah here right so you can see MCP URL so this is think of it like this is an MCP GitHub MCP server or MCP server which will through which you can use the services so this will act like a think of it like an API endpoint or a server which will take your request, okay, and it will authenticate and it will show you all the services you can use with the with the with with this MCP, right? And then you can you know do whatever jobs you want to do. Like I want to create a new branch, I want to commit a code, I want to get all the readex, all the version details which I have created in the past and all that stuff, right? So most important, you can see here you just need MCP server URL and authentication mechanism. So using GitHub token, of course. So these two things is only what you need, and rest let it let it authenticate, let it you know use all the processes what you have in GitHub. Okay, so again one example, there are multiple ways of multiple ways or multiple sources you can use. I'll just take in one example for the sake of simplicity. Okay, I cover that later. Like I said, but yeah, this is what MCPA is a universal laptop. Okay, same as saying here, connecting Google Drive and Gmail using Cloud. I think yes. In that case, you're using your Google MCP server, right? I can say yes. That's that's again one example for sure. And we use MCP to talk to our ClickHouse either, which is through our level. Okay, that's a good one, Sim. Yep, got it. So even in Lululemon, right? That's what we do here as well. So in Lululemon, we have different distributed teams, right? So we have a merchandise team which gives us the styles, the SKUs which are coming up. Then we have a different team, a DC forecasting team, which gives us the forecast, right? And then we have a data science team, which again does their forecasting, and we have to concentrate all the results, right? So in a way, yes, we maintain you know different data sources, but yes, we just have one OAuth mechanism which authenticates and give us access to all these you know different servers and grab the data from there. Yeah, perfect. That's a good one. So I think you can relate it. Now again, two different things, right? Tooling is one.

Like you get access to it. Now once you grab the data, then if you're using LLM, okay, then that's more inference based, so then it becomes a reasoning part. Okay, so MCP is only about getting the data, or going, getting the access to go to the data points. Okay, what you're doing after that is not MCP. So just want to double check on that. Okay, that's very important to understand. MCP is a way you can get data from different sources, and that's about it. Okay, whatever reasoning further, I'll say inference you are doing on top of it, meaning you get the data in LM decides. Okay, this this is all the data I have now. I'll think on it and give you the final output. That's the inference part. So that has to do nothing with MCP. Okay, just to make sure you understand that thoroughly. Okay, great. So yeah, all good. Let's go ahead. Like I said, I'm going to share that notebook later with you, so nothing to worry. Let's now go into the weeds of it and let's play some spot quiz here. In agent-based systems, tools are basically introduced to enable the agent to go beyond text generation. Okay, so which of the best statement explains this? Why tools are effective or useful? Agents respond faster by skipping reasoning steps. Again, very weird. Allow the agent to interact with new systems. I think that's what the closest option is. Remove the need for prompts. That's not going anywhere. Prompts still you need, right? And reset the agent to predefined responses. Perfect. Everyone knows that, right? Yep. So definition of MCP, ideally speaking. So yep, you can connect to other systems or APIs. Now this is a breakdown, right? Between your why do you need tools and some examples here, right? Of course, first and foremost, you need to connect to real data. Okay, that includes your files, databases, APIs, and then you need a SQL tool to query database. I think you we did. I was not there last week, right? But in the substitute, mentor should have covered that. Right? You must have generated SQLs, right? I think three reasons were there. First, basic SQLs, and the second one was little advanced using joins, and third one was aggregation. Some joins, right? So again, you can relate that. That if you want to get a SQL, you can use a tool, right? For that, of course. And then most importantly, deterministic operations, right? Calculations, queries. So you have API two to first slide data that includes your price, like weather, price predictions, orders, whatnot. Now, I just want to take a pause here. I want to show you, right? If you guys have, if you most of, if some of you are working, a few of you are working on something like Genie, right? This is again very, very effective tool. We are using it because we have a Databricks technical suite, right, in in our workspace, right. So here here, what we do in Genie, right? We just ask a question to Genie, right? Sometimes we can also access authenticate Genie to take my credentials and access to this table and tell me the schema of that table, right? Because as a new joinee or as a first time user, you don't know what tables you have or what schema you have, right? So can you give me a data definition language, a DDL, which can define what this table, what what the schema is? Correct. So based on that, this is again a very classic example, a live example which we are using on a day-to-day basis. So you can use, of course, you can use it for reasoning, no doubt. It will give you the summary and the report also. By the same time, genie can also be you know like a tool where you can say you know what genie these are my credentials or I'm already authenticated. Can you give me all the tables, all the schema of this table because I'm new to this organization, right? So very important. Okay, so this again one example. That's what I think they are letting here. Performing domestic operations or interacting with the with the real data, right? And lastly, what we have here is reducing hallucinations by fetching factual information, right? So, of course, if you have tool, you can validate it upfront, right?

If someone is saying the sales was $4 million last quarter, okay, makes sense. Let me go and check right in the tables. So you have the facts with you, right? So it's very easy to guide it and then you know give a final consensus on that. Okay, so for calculation, of course, for fetching live data and for SQL querying, you can use the agents there. Perfect. This is this is simple, right? I think we are going to use it today as well in the case study. We will be creating the SQL query and also we will be sending an email, right? So these are the two tools we are going to develop today as well. Perfect. Okay, let's keep on going there. Primary benefit of adding memory to agents. Now, what do you think? What what can be that right computational cost reduction need for data verification personalization in context continuity making the agents slower to respond I think you know it already right lot of responses are coming up yep makes sense C now there is something very interesting in agents right short term and long term and I want to again make sure that we have this demarcation clearly, okay? Because I have seen people are saying, you know, I can see all the screens on the left side. That means agent is storing everything. See again, there's a difference between storage and memory. Okay, storage means you can store infinite data, right? Not a problem today, right? You have cloud and you have S3. You have Google Store buckets. We can store as much as we want. Okay, but memory is something which, when an agent is responding, how much it can remember. So context, context continuity-that's what the option was, right? So context means how it can remember, how much it can remember, and how much it can use. Okay, so let's talk about these definitions first. And again, I'll show you one presentation, or I'll say you can just quickly do one, you know, follow up on that. Like let's say we are using a short-term memory here. So what is short-term memory? Okay. So let's take example: single conversation. Okay, where you just track user inputs, and intermediate reasoning is required, okay? Like let's say example, give me take this tool, or give me all the columns of this table, so it will give you all the column table tables, okay? But that's again a session based. That's it. It will it won't remember that, okay? Now this is of course if it's the same session because short term means it's the same session. If you are using Gemini Cloud, right, may you create sessions. Each session is short-term memory only, right? I'll again explain this to you. I hope you are using it, but if not, quickly showing you here, right. So you can see all the charts here, recents, right. All this, what have happened with me in the past, whatever one week or so, right. So you can all see here, right? This is all short-term chat sessions, okay? So that's what it means. Definitely, it will improve as you keep on increasing the chat session, right? It will definitely understand more. That's what coherent means, right? It will real, it will understand from the data and then try to you know make a judgment there, but so of course that's ongoing interaction, right? But that's again is very stored in a conversation context or prompt window. Okay, so that's like a short term session based I can say. Okay, now on the on the right hand side where you see long term memory. Okay, so now that's where it creates a user profile, and user profile means it's it stores your demographic details at least on the first forefront, and then again it can learn from those sessions also, right? So a single conversation to recent user inputs, and again same thing, intermediate reasoning. But this will enable that. Okay, you know what, Ansip maybe he has, he is 38 years old, right? Maybe he's based in Toronto, so all the user level demographics or details, you know, it can capture and store. Okay, so that would be the long term, or I'll say the user base persona that those agents will store for for that for you, right?

For as a person, because they want to make sure that whatever content they are recommending to you, right, that's relevant. If in the past I said I don't like, let's say X Y Z, it will make sure that you know it will never recommend me the same content throughout. Okay, so that's how it enabled the personalization. Okay, now in terms of storage, again, like I said, storage and memory are two different things, right? So if you see here, this is all stored. This is all stored in a database. Okay, it's very easy to retrieve with a user ID because you want as an answer if you have a user ID, right? So it's stored in your less databases. It can retrieve, but the question is if all these sessions have been used by your agent? No, it will summarize these all the you know. So what that's what happens in an application layer, it will see all these recent charts, it will summarize like maybe in 1520 words. That's what we do in Lululemon, also right? We summarize all the user interactions, and we make sure that okay, what are the important details that can be extracted from there, and that can be saved in your you know long term memories. Like here in this case, I am talking about my dog, right? So it knows, okay, I have a Labrador, so that may get stored in the long-term memory. Okay, so next time I'm going to ask, you know, when when my dog vaccination is due, it knows that you have Labrador, so that this is when the vaccination is due. Okay, so always remember that's what I think. There is always a difference between storage and memory. Memory is something which your agent uses, you know penitent for okay so I stop here again I have a very detailed good presentation on this as well which I'll see if we have time at the end but don't want to you know delay the discussion for now see here can you use long term memory for short term memory session as well so Rapis like I said I give an example right so yes again I'll give you one scenario of what I am using right in in Lulayman. So we actually have a long term memory in the form of knowledge graphs. Okay, you understand graphs, right? So like, what's the username? What's the what's his professional details? What's the designation, right? So we create this in Lulemen specific things, right? So we have a we have a node known as interest. Okay, interest hasn't like he because we are April company, right? So we want to understand which employee likes what sort of footwears or you know yoga pants and t-shirts and you know winter jackets, what now? So now that's a good one. So we are actually using the long term. So I'll give you an example, like I said. So let's say I'm sure I'm I'm a big fan of their winter hooties, right? Winter hooties with the specific category details. I can't disclose that again because I don't want to go into legal trouble here, right? So yes, I do have a very personal preference. So whenever I'm doing a shopping, let's say on Black Friday, okay. So again, I ask question through my bot. Black Friday season is on, so we are using bots, right? We are using rehab LM systems there, so we just I just type, can you you know simply order a three jackets for me? And it knows because it retrieves from on my long term you know memory that yes, Anjith have bought three like the winter jackets, like the winter hoodies, X Y Z style ID in the last year, or let's say we are doing it for last 12 months, the last this time frame. So it will ask me, you bought these black, red, and blue color. Are you okay with these colors, or do you have a specific preference? So yes, that's again a usage of using long term, you know, in a short term context. Okay, because you are buying something and it knows your preferences already from a long term. So yes, that's one example. So we can use it, of course. And in fact, any ecom application does that, right? If you're using Amazon.com, right? So it it keeps a track on the similar items.

So let's say I I bought a I bought dog treats in the last week or so, right? So it knows that yes, you already have this pre preference. So when you're trying to buy again, it will recommend that you already bought this up. Do you want? So again, that's like a long term memory use use for a short term context. Okay, so that's yeah. And again, to your point, is it optimum? I'll say no, because sorry, I'm saying it's not a problem. It is optimal already because you're using graph databases, right? So retrieving graph databases very very exceptional faster, right? Or worst case, you can use FAI SS or some sort of a database, which we learned in the last previous weeks, right? So retrieving is not a problem, to be honest, because user history can't be very detailed, right? It can't be like even if a user is five years, 10 years old, maybe he has bought 1000 items, 15,000 items, right? That's it. So going to that details is is not a problem at all. The summary of all your different sessions are long-term memory. Summaries, I'll say that's a good question. It depends again. You can persist the summaries, okay, or you can extract like any year. You can run any year on those. Like summaries are 1520, lines, right? I'm just making it up again for the sake of explanation. So we tried that summary approach actually in the past, but the summary approach was sometimes we felt like maybe we can just pull out the entities right of to optimize on the context window side right because if you give the summaries, you can store it. You can. I'm not saying it's not possible. You can do it, but again the problem would be if you let's say you have 1000 sessions for the user, right, and you keep 10 lines summary, so 1000 into 10 again would be 10,000 lines, and you are giving that context window to your LLM, right, when it tries to think. So if you don't have a let's say token constraint, right, because ultimately everything boils down to token constraint. How many tokens you are passing to ILM, and that's how they charge, right? Any GNAI company, that's how they charges, right? So if that's if if you have a budget, don't have a budget constraints, don't have a token constrains, and I'll say yes, you can keep keep summaries. But in our case, that didn't work out well because we did realize that sometimes you know the user is asking the same question, right? So, and we are passing those summaries again. Again, there are ways to handle that. Also, we can apply DDoP and whatnot. But again, to your point, yes, it can be summaries also. But if you want to make it more optimal, I'll say run an NER. So, let's say I am talking. We have a discussion this, right? So, we can summarize my discussion in five lines. But I can say I'm talking about MCP. I'm talking about long-term, short-term entities, and that gets stored in a database or a knowledge graph. So that becomes even more optimal. Okay. So yes, to your point, I'll say summaries are possible, and people do store it. But if you want to further, you know, go one step further, further try to reduce the token constraints, or I'll say the store in the context window constraints in terms of the usage number of tokens or part you're passing, and I'll say you can run a further NER on those summaries. You know, and further I'll say you know clearly cleanse cleanse the information. Okay, perfect. So yeah, that's about it. Let's go on then. Now these are some examples. I already covered one blue linen one, right where I bought some winter, winter jackets, hoodies in the in the in the previous winter, and they didn't remember. So same thing again here. I think it applies. This is more a travel domain. Think of like Expedia or you know Booking.com. So book me a flight to New York for 20th September. Okay, agent will understand the intent. What you're trying to ask, right? What you're trying to accomplish. Then it will use a plan. The plan essentially here in this case is it has to search for your flight. Okay, so it will go to different flight websites.

Think of it like it's using MCP at the background. Okay, and then what's the action here? The action is it has to it book the business class flight again. That preference, like which class would you prefer? That came here. You can see from a long term memory. Okay, so what it will do is it will search. Okay, Anchit travel to New York last trip. Which class did you prefer? Or last five six series of trips right to New York, what time did he prefer? Okay, so you can see a flight timing also morning flights, right? So based on that, the again persona, long term persona, or I'll say long term attributes, it will try to take an action on it, right? So you can see here long term maybe four star hotels, but that's what the user preferred. He mostly mostly prefer morning flights, and he again prefer business class. Okay, so these are the long term memory attributes which the agent sees or stores. I'll say, and then it retrieves and start the search on it. Okay, now some short term memory, right? This is like again session based because you're booking a flight for 20th September. Okay, you can book 10 flights, right? 20 flights in a year, but again, that's a short term. That's only a session base, right? So you can see the New York 20th September 6 a.m. This is what I'm talking about: name entity extraction, right? So it can extract the entities for you, and that's how you can save, right? A little bit more on the on the tokens. So flight booking IDs X y1 234 it's new on so this extracts all the short term memory here right from the output and long term will definitely have user preferences okay in this case so this is what you can see your flight has has been booked this is our ultimate output booking ID 12345 so this will go to short term it will I'll say it will still store it, okay? Persist means storage, but it won't retrieve it for the for the for your agentic output or context window output. Okay, so it won't consider it as a as a as a value when it makes an inference. Okay, let's do one more example quickly. User follows up. So let's say let's assume you are in the same session, okay, same chat session, okay, and then you are now saying perfect, you booked a flight or you book a hotel also near Times Square, so again it goes to the agent, which will again do a plan. We learned about those fundamentals, right? The patterns, I think, planning, execution, The React right different interfaces what we have. If not, it's okay. I'll see if we can you know put some light on that also. So you had to plan again for a four-star hotel in Times Square for 20 September based on the long-term history again right long-term memory. I'll say and then the action would be again book the hotel and again your hotel has to input with the X Y z1 2345 A b1 234 booking ID. So again, you can see the short term memory will still remember because it's the same session, right? So it will still remember your flight details, and we have appended the flight booking details also here. Okay, so this we can persist in a storage. Maybe we can do offline. You know, I'm not sure if you're aware of it. Lululemon, we are still pretty new, right, in this analytics world. But Amazon, Walmart, what they do is they also have these short-term, you know, persistent data. They do a lot of logging on that, log a lot of tracking on that, so they can understand the user even more, better, but they're not using agents again. There's a difference to it, right? Like let's say offline, what people are preferring. Okay, so they run an analytics on it and say, okay, you know what? These many people are preferring these many, you know, I'll say categories or some sort of items, or they have returned these items right in the past, so that they can you know get personal. Like they can help these these recommendations can also help the users to you know get better recommendation for next time. Or these interactions, I'll say these transactions.

Okay, so again, like I said, in and that is happening all the spaces. It's just like how we prepare data, how we keep it, and how the agents can use it, right? So maybe there's a separate agent. And when I was in Walmart, we did that, right? So we're not heavily loading agents because we know tokens are very expensive, right? But what we were doing is we were creating an offline, you know, a matrix which will take all the user interactions, all the summaries. I think which gentleman clearly has right. So, main not everything needs to be an agent, right? Some things can be simple, be classic in analytics, right? Which we are doing for a while. Okay, so like let's say extract all these NERs. This is very possible. You have different analytical tools. You don't have to run agents for everything that I said because it's expensive, right? So you can run a spacey or let's say NLTK library, right? Where you can extract these entities, store it, and then you can run some analytics tool on it, right? Okay, Ansett. The last three months he bought these many items. He he defended these many items, right? Or he returned these many items. He had these many complaints, so now it can these inputs can again be cleansed, right? Let's say in 50 or 100 words or entities, and then it can again feed it to your, you know, user persona, and then that those inputs can be used by your agent to make recommendations even more, you know, personalized. Okay, so there is an offline and of course online agentic designs which can collaborate and work well. Okay, because those are cheap solutions; they are not very expensive solutions. They don't have to do anything with the agents, or I'll say the tokens. Okay, perfect. Let's keep on going there. Most important thing now, I think this should be the last very interesting topic. MCP agency systems. So it's a primary purpose here. Improve the GPU performance. Standardize agents' connection with extended two data sources. Replace HL models with LLMs. Ensure memory LLM never expires. Oh my God! Some options are very horrible here, right? I have to confess that. Yep, spot on, Victor. How you the agents can connect to external tools, right? Data sources. Now here it is. What exactly this? Sorry about this. Google is behaving a bit weird. So agents often need to work with external databases. We already talked about this, right? Of course, if that's not a standard, again think of it this way: if you have five phones, you need five chargers. Is it scalable? Of course not. You just need one charger which can plug in all the five phones, right? Same thing with MCP. So just one, you know, process which can work for all the five, you know, different or different data sources here. So integration is seamless. Unlike if it's not there, that was a problem. I still remember in Walmart, right when we were having a compliance platform, right. So compliance platform gets complaints from different diverse sources. So we were having Bazaar Voice, we were having, you know, Crawford, Perigo, different data vendors, right. So they were sending data to us. Now the problem was because we were creating a compliant system, so we need a uniform system, right, which can get to different data sources. The problem at that time was Crawford was on SFTP, Perigo was on let's say Google Store, right, and all the everywhere the data was completely you know distribute like on different platforms later was hosted, so I still remember. And this was in 2020 when MCP was not even there. Right, they launched in 2023, 204, I think, by Clot. So I can bear that pain. I can still remember that pain where I have to write all the different, you know, Python just to make sure I can connect to you know Google Store bucket. I can connect to your AWS S3 bucket, right, and all that stuff. So it was, and sometimes they were even sending data in Excel sheets also. So four different data sources. Right now, that time has gone where you have to write different you know wrappers or different connectors to get to different data sources. Okay, that's the best part here. So again, what does it does?

It has a common protocol, like where agents can discover and use external capabilities. So how MCP works? Let's let's try to understand with some statements here. Expose your capabilities to an MCP server. Okay. So what I'll do now is I'll quickly read it through and I'll go to my notebook and share this to you where the MCP server is, right? So that you can connect the thoughts really well, because unfortunately today what we are doing is in our project we are creating an MCP server on the notebook only, which is not bad to be honest. Of course not, but if you want to get a real feel, right, that notebook will help you. Like your MCP server is not where you hosting internally, but you are actually connecting it to the external world. Okay, so that's why I kept that notebook so that you get a real sense, okay, of things or a production sense. I'll say. So yeah, MCP server gets exposed to MCP capability, right? Like that's what it means. The connect the agents connect to MCP client, okay, and then it discovers tools. Like in our example, we are discovering tools. What different tools we have? We can create a branch. We can get all the logs. I'll show you. Stay tuned. Just want to read it through thoroughly. And now, what's the consequences or the implications of MCP? Right. So definitely, it can decouple the logic from tool implementation. Okay. The best part you don't have to worry about writing everything in one. You can decouple it separately, right? Your tooling will be different. Your implementation can be different. If they are integrated, of course, they are reusable, right? And it's easy to maintain. If something goes wrong with MCP server, you don't have to change the code. It can still be right there. You just have to, you know, see where the problem is, and then you can just troubleshoot it. So it's again easy, right? Like instead of writing everything in one, you can decouple, and something breaks in one component of it, one portion of it. The other portion does not suffer. Okay, so that's the beauty of the architecture here. And of course, this is consistent enterprise ready agent architectures, right? So think of it this way: I don't care if you are increasing your data sources from 10 to 20, or you are migrating somewhere. I mean, you need you don't have to do that implementation, right? The MCP server will definitely handle it, right, for you. So I stop here. Like I said, I quickly give an example. So let's see, person is asking. Yes, Rakesh, I'll point it out to you. I actually have created some content for you also, right? So I'm going to share this post class, but I can definitely point it to you, right? Here you can see these five, six slides I've created. I'll see if I can point something more, right? But yeah, that should be that should be possible. Okay, no problem. Okay, so now let's quickly go through this GitHub example, right? So I'll keep it short again because I know we changed, right? So whether you have any questions, you can ask on the chat or on the on the WhatsApp group. I hope we are still there. I'm not sure. I'll still double check, right? So here you can see, right now, what I'm doing. I'll just give you a background context, real quick. I guess I don't want to, you know, hijack the time. The NCP explanation only. So what I'm doing is this is my GitHub. Okay. So what I'm trying to do with this example is simply I have some few branches. Okay. Let me open this here in a separate tab so that we don't get lost here. Let's say unset 48 GitHub dot active okay here. To be honest, I don't mind. Oops, sorry, my bad. I'm giving a wrong username here. Should be unset 48 only. So you can see some I did very long back in COVID and all I little done little active. Okay, so I have five repositories here. You can see. So what I'm trying to do is one of the repositories. What I have is customer review sentiment analyzer. Okay, so what I'm trying to do is I'm going to create a new branch.

You can see we have I have already a master branch. I created one or two more for the other folks. So I'm going. We are going to create one branch here, okay? But we are not going to go anywhere in the MCP or sorry, in the GitHub, okay? I'm not going to install anything, not going to make command line. I'll do everything on its on this using MCP. So I'm creating a new branch, and this happens a lot, right? When you're working in day-to-day work, it happens. You have to create a new branch, or you want to understand what all you know repositories have, what all the code in there. Okay, so this is what I'm going to going to do here. Now, of course, we are using MCP server, so you can see MCP here. I already pointed out, right? This is a GitHub Copilot.com MCP, so this is a MCP server through which you can communicate, and the communication happens through RPC. Don't go into the weeds of it. Like I said, don't worry at all. Just think on lines that you are actually communicating with a GitHub MCP server, okay, which will authenticate you first, and then you can use you know all the all the tooling capabilities of GitHub. That's what we are going to do. What we are trying to do here, okay. So here you can have to generate one GitHub token because that's authentication part, right? So if you are new to this GitHub, you don't have to do anything. Just go to your settings, okay? And this session is recorded, so you can go and explore that. So in settings, you have to go to your developer settings, okay? And you just need to create one personal access fine grain token. So this is what I've created last month. Okay, so you can create more, generate new token, and you have to make sure you at least paste it somewhere. Like I have this in my notes. Okay, because that's like a generated, and you have to paste it. It's like a what that's get generated. You have to save it. Okay, so that gets saved. Now I'm going to run this up. Let's say I'm creating a GitHub token. Ask for my token, of course, Anjithone token. Whatever name you are giving there, right? Like here, if you see, I've given Anjith underscore token. So that key is essentially the identifier, right? Not the value. The value will be the token, but the key identifier is your name, right? So I'm going here now. You can see it's asking for my token. Just make sure you have the token ready. Let me copy paste it real quick. I want to make sure don't copy anything else. Okay, so let's copy paste that up. Let's press Enter. So you are authenticated now. Now here you can see I'm using this MCP server. So what this will now do is, and again, not going to read the code. Simply see, speaking what this is doing, it will tell you all the tools that that you have right in GitHub. okay.com, So this code. Oh, okay. I got an error. No model, no MCP. I think I didn't even ported this. Oops, sorry, my bad. I had to install the MCP first. My bad. Sorry. So yeah, just make sure you follow all the steps. Okay, if you skip anything, that that could be a problem. Okay, let install. You need to install MCP, of course, because you're doing it by a notebook, right? Just give me a sec. Don't take the time. Yeah, install everything here now. So it will tell you what tools you have, right? So I would quickly want to. So now you can see all these tools: create pull request, create repository, delete file, fork repository list, merge, pull request, pull request, right? All that. Like I said, I'm just creating a new branch. Okay, so I'm not going to do the details of it. You can explore, of course, later because of the time constraint. Sorry about this. Okay, so now you can do some asynchronous calls. Now in notebook. Think of this, right? Like notebook can go sequentially, but sometimes the calls can be async. Async means you don't care about the order. You can call it any time from anywhere.

Okay, so just creating some sort of asynchronous call tools here so that it doesn't impact the overflow of the notebook. Okay, so it's just like a design constraint so that make sure you do synchronous calls. How how many calls you can without affecting the sequence of the notebook? Okay, so I'm just creating that function here. Okay, take the URI and all. Now here, what I have done is this is entropic because you know MCP is given by Claude. I hope you remember that, right? If not, it's okay. They are the godfathers here, so they have given some public repositories that you can play around with. Okay, so this is one public repository. Not important for this example, but maybe if you want to explore, you can go and you know go to this URL, see what all codes they have, and this can also enable some sort of you know MCP implementation. Okay, so I'll skip this one now. Not important, but for you guys, if you're interested, right? Can do all this away tool calls. Now I'll talk more about my you know stuff, so you can see my username, what repo I'm using, what file path, which file I'm going to make a change now, right? Because I'm just reading this notebook IPYNB. By my base branch is master, but I want to create a new branch, and I'm just giving a name MCP test hyphen 02, okay, and then just adding one comment here that via note added via MCP functionality. So you can see I'm not going any. I'm just sticking on my notebook and doing all the work from here, okay. So just click here now again, make a cool tool call, right? With all my file and base branches, okay? It will go there, get the content. You can again print this up just for your sake of exploration, right? I'll keep it short. It will actually get all the content, right? So this can this can even break your notebook. So make sure that if you are printing this content, because content is like a text string which you're getting right, but these are millions of tokens. Okay, so you can see it gets crashed. That's fine, no problem. But yeah, don't print it up just for the sake of understanding because some people want to see what I'm downloading and all, right? So that's perfectly okay. Okay, now here, what I'm doing is just checking any of the content, printing the content for sure, not not very important. And finally, if you want to just see what comment I have added there, no, like what I'm getting right, retrieving

from get all that.

We can see what come, what repository is, what customer feedback sentiment asks, what it does. Just doing. My branch is doing here. It's just what you can see. My read me, right? My read me file. What you explore? What you're seeing on the front or the front end is what you're also seeing here. Okay, just get some. Just to see that you can also do all the read access from right. Most important part. I'm going to commit this up. Okay, this new branch hyphen 02. So this is what you can do. Branch results. Don't print anything like I said earlier, and this will just commit all the modified files to new branch. Okay, so run this and wait. Now, like I said, we have a time constraint. It's not going to run everything, but I can show you here quickly what have happened now. Okay, it's going back to my just refresh it now once again, and now you can see the branches have turned to four. Okay, so if you now go here, you can see the new branch we just we just created here. Okay, so just has been created 21 seconds ago. So now you can see I'm not going to GitHub, not get anywhere, no command line, nothing of that sort. I'm just doing it from my notebook. That becomes easy, right? Because if I had to push any changes, it's easy. Okay, I don't have to even go to Copilot or somewhere else. It can be done on the fly. So that's what we are doing in our day-to-day work. Okay, we had to make some changes. Okay, again, not very important. So, but it gives you a feel, right? This is what MCP is. That yes, I can go to a server, external server. I can make a changes, and you know you can see video rights. Okay, can you make the content screen bigger? Okay, sorry about that. Is it better now? My my apologies. It's not going to make a phenomenal difference, but still, you can at least see some some sort of things. Perfect. So yeah, that's about it. Like I said, let's come back now. Okay, we can go forever, but looking into the time constraint, also just want to make sure we are on track. So now, what we will do is quickly see if there is any other thing remaining on the presentation, and then we come to the project. Okay. Yeah, here you go. This is where we were. So now you can see we can decouple the logic. You can do your work in notebook and do implementation. Whatever you want to do, you can do right. And the agent logic is it totally separate from this, right? So in the next two lines, next two, three lines in the MCB example that I showed you. I'm actually using the agent take reasoning there also, right? Like pull some history and then ask agent what this script is doing or what this branch is doing, because sometimes it happens you are new to the world, right? You're just joining the company, so you don't know what this branch does. If people are doing comments, great. But not all people are great in writing the comments, right? Like very expressive things, like what this branch does and all that. So the next exam, the next few lines, I'm not going to go back now. Okay, but the next few lines is I am asking, I am giving the LLM that this is what my project does. Can you explain me this? What this is doing? So it will explain you. Okay, this project is talking about customer sentiments, but not positive negative sentiments. It talks about the product sentiments. Like the notebook gets heated very fast. This is no there is no negativity here. It's just like it's a feature critic feature, right? Why MacBook is getting heated? It should not, right? So it's a negative sentiment. So when the user guy buys a product, they write some they write some critic or some feedback. So that feedback is what I'm analyzing in this repository. Is it a negative or a positive feedback? If someone says I can run my GPU, I can play phenomenal games in this NVDA 512 TV or you know GBE RAM, so that's a positive sentiment because you can play the game seamlessly, right?

So that's what I'm doing in that project. So you can get that details in that notebook, okay? In that example that I have given there, okay? At the end. Okay, perfect. So now this is just some example of MCP also, okay? So this is before, like I explained this example, right, where we were having different API endpoints. So you had to write the code for each and every you know API to get access. So this is before. I think they forgot to mention this is before when MCP was not there, right? Same example, book flight booking. So agents definitely have to go through different APIs. We can see flight API, hotel API, calendar, because you're saying 20th September, but it has to call the calendar API to check how the flight activity looks like for the next seven or 10 days, right? Whatever it is, or which flight is giving you the best deal, right? So it has to call three different APIs differently. So that was the whole problem before MCP come into existence. Okay, so you can see flight APIs, different tools. The format can be mismatched. Some can give you JSON. Some can give you, you know, like I'll say, data frame, tabular data output. Right. So again, a problem inconsistencies exist. Right. No standardization approach. Integration is very harder, and there's no unified protocol, right? So agent can lose crucial context there. Now with MCP, you can see here this is just one protocol, and it can access to your flight API, your hotel API, your candle API, okay, seamlessly. So always with the MCP server, I showed you that GitHub. Copilot. Com. right? So that's the same URL which you're using. The best part is this happens over JSON RPC. Just to give a little context here, little technical details. So JSON RPC is like all APIs can seamlessly handshake with JSON RPC. That's why it's very popular and very easy to integrate with. Okay, so I think that's pretty much it. Like I said, the only difference is now you are using one protocol, just giving some authentication to handshake for you on the fly, which we did right with the GitHub example in our notebook also. Okay, yeah, that's pretty much it. I'll see if I have some time at the end, or maybe I can circulate this notebook for you. Whatever we have done today, right in that notebook, I have just documented it here as well. So at the same time, like I said, I'm also using your agent API right at the end to get me what this repository is doing, right? So you can see I'm again using MCP client. I'm doing a certain RPC, right? And my remote, like my MCP server name is a api.githubco.com. Okay, so that's like the MCP server details here. I'll share this. Okay, I already have the link, so I can share that after the class with you guys. Perfect. Yeah, like I said, I'll share this after the class, right? Let me go through this, and then I already have this ready, right? So just bear with me once we end the session. I'll come back on this. Oh yeah, perfect. No worries. Yeah, let's go on then. Now where are we? So we are almost halfway mark. Want to make sure we don't wait beyond 11 a.m. So again, let's get started now. What we have to see today. So let's do this. Let me open the notebook here. So we have a reimbursement automation notebook. Okay, I'll go to the notebook. I just want to set the foundation a bit here as well. What we are doing, right? So it's a traditional automation process. Okay, let's say you work in a company, you are traveling, you have a travel job, you are say executive, or let's say hire senior folks, right? Which have a travel, and of course, all companies have you know designated budgets, right? Like as a dieter, you can spend maybe $500, you know, outside, right? You know, in in any of food. So you are doing for the food beverages. If they are doing it for the accommodation, right? If you are lodging, how much is the entitle entitlement, right? Like how much you can spend. You you can't book $2,000 portal, right? If you have an expense of $1,000 only per day, right?

So that's what the standard company policies are. So this reimbursement automation, what this process is like, employees are going to their you know official visits, they are spending money and then they are trying to claim it now. Okay, via the bills what they have as a proof, right? So what this process is like, anyway. Let's see it up here. Hope we get the point, right? Like we got we have to do a reimbursement for those employees who are outside, you know, and spend money, of course. Okay, so using MCP, Landgraph, and GPT 4o. So here it's a problem. Let's talk about problem statement first, okay, and then we'll go to the tech stack and architecture, of course. So the problem statement was here. So manual expense reimbursement is a slow error, error, error proven process. Okay, so if you're doing it manually, a person is reading the receipts. Maybe he can just do a do a do a create an error right one digit here and there, and the number changes. Right, that again has bottlenecks. So it's manual. Have to review through each and every receipts. The finance team, right, which is actually approving your, you know, reimbursement, they have to see the days, they have to see the categories if this one vendor compliance or not, does it sees or authenticate or not, legit or not, right? So that takes hours or batch, and of course the second problem is since they are these, this is done by human, and if there's a policy change happens, right, it's difficult to make sure that's a real time change that can even reflect the individual's capacity also. Let's say I'm doing it for a while, but something changes last month. I'm not aware of it, and I'm still claiming or I'm approving the claims, which may not be correct right at that time. So again, that's idle bound. Right, again, different viewers have different understanding of the expense rules, and again, that can have a gap. Okay, in the audit risk, no real time visibility. So, of course, if I submitted, I don't know what's going on. Which stage are we in, right? Did it get approved or not? You said one week. It's been two weeks now, right? Someone goes on vacation, so you really don't know what's going on, right? On your approval process, so need a like a real time way, right, to see where where exactly my reimbursement sits, right? And volume, skill, scalability, right. So let's say if you have 10 people in finance and you have 1000 people traveling, right, that's not scalable, right. Again, it would be a problem. Like each age, each person is seeing at least 10 people's right account, which doesn't make any sense, right? It's very heavy and manual capacity prone. Okay, so this is it. Now we'll see the dataset and all. So, like I said, the presentation helps us to understand quickly, you know, skim about the problem statement so that it becomes easy to understand, right? So now what I'll do is I'll go back quickly to the notebook. This is what we have here, right? And I made these changes, some changes here. Okay, for the Langsmith part, like how can track each and every agent and its out and the tools and its output, right? So I've added that portion here. I'll share this again at the end. But like I said, it's not a mandate thing to talk about Langsmith for now. Okay, so even if you don't know it, it's okay. We a great learner doesn't want you to learn at least at this point of time. This will come, I think. Like I said, the last two or three weeks, right? But as a developer or as a hardcore agent, a developer, I'll say it's important to see those. Okay, that's why I kept it, but you can ignore it for the time being. So yeah, this is about it. As you can see, again, I just have gone through the problem statement here. This is the objective, right? Like what we need to do is now we want to make a agentic AI system, which can actually you know automate or help to automate this process. Like if you submit the receipts, it will create a. It will run a a PDF parser which can convert those receipts into actual data point, right?

And then that can be ingested. So we'll have. So now the agents can you know get those receipts, okay? After processing, of course, and then it will try to mimic the same work. What our you know finance team is doing, so it will go. It will check the employee details. If this employee is a director, they have a database which talks about how much limit or how what's the policy applies for those employees, right? As a director, you can spend X Y Z amount on your outside, you know, food or lodging. It will solve those policies, and then based on those policies, it will see if the employee have properly, you know, followed those policies or the violation have happened, right? So it will definitely, you know, take an action. I mean, greatly appropriately take an action, and then depending on it, it will reimburse or reject the approval, and then it will send an email to the employee that your reimbursement has been approved or rejected for this specific reason. So that's what we are going to make it end to end today. Okay. So again, the isolate reimbursement process, turnaround time. Okay, minimize the errors and of course reduce the manual effort here. So now let's talk about the data descriptions. What we have. We'll take a break. Just give me, just I just want to make sure we warm up for the project, and then we'll take a two minutes break. Okay, I promise. So here it is. You can see the description. I have to make it run, but here it is. You have a raw bill, a CSV file that contains employee ID and the employee name. Let me open this up real quick. Trigger build.csv. Okay, I just want to make sure we are on. I think on week three, maybe week two. Yep, MCP. So this is the first CSV you have. Trigger build.csv. So you can see here, right? This is how it looks like. His employee ID amidst him a raw bill. This is how it looks like. So think of it already has been scanned for you. Okay, I know this. There's just one more catch there that you can do a scan, right? And then save the PDF. The same thing you can apply that you know that employee has scanned and share the PDF with you. Okay. Now this is a CSV, like I said, but it's possible that you can use a PDF parser and convert that into tables also, right? But I think that's out of scope for now. So they're giving you a CSV. I think we can open it here also for a better visibility. Let me put this here. There you can see your employee ID and what you know the entire receipt is available as one column. Let's open. So now you can see where the employee name and draw bill is here. So this has been extracted from a tool for you, and you have to consume this as an as a as a bill, okay, or as a bill details here. Okay, so this is trigger bill.csv. Yes, Luke. That's a good one. I'm going to come on to that. Yes, this is where it is. You can. I'm going to talk about that also, right? I got your point. Yep. Here you go. You can pass the keys here. I think that's what your ring brings. If I get it correct. Yeah. Yeah.

I think so. You you you just had mentioned that there was a better way to do it, and I've been wondering. I was going to ask you last week, but we know that you weren't available. So yes, if you you you had just said, "Hey, there's a better way to do this besides the config.json, and I I believe these variables here in the secrets is what you're referring to. Correct?

Correct. Yeah. So you can pass a key and a value here as a key value can is very easy to add as new secrets, right? And do that. Yeah, spot on. I'll show you that. Okay, so thank you. No problem. Okay, great. Right. So yeah, let's see that here quickly. Yep. So this is trigger ball trigger sorry trigger bill dot CSP. Right. So you have a OCR build text that the OCR you understand right optical character recognition. Think of it like someone took a PDF and they scan it, okay, and then it becomes as an output as a as a text file. In this case, a CSV of course, but it becomes a text right from a person becomes a digitized text, okay. Then you have employee details here. Was a name, position, and IDs where you will replicate like what or connect the dots this employee has what sort of entitlement right what value entitlement for different you know facilities. Then you have past reimbursements. Of course, you have a yearly limit right. So if you're traveling five times in a year and you spend everything in the first or second, you know, visit only or your official, you know, trip. Of course, you are not entitled for the remaining times of it, right? So there's a yearly limit, and that's why the past reimbursement lookup is also important, right? What, how much you have spent in the in the past historical spends, okay? And that's again by category, and then we have a reimbursement policy, right? Like where you can have maximum limits by portion and category. So this will come from your policy documents. So here's one sample example right here: Oak Street, Bistro, 245 Oak Street, San Francisco. Bill number is here. What's the date? And it talks about what actually you can write: Will salmon for $26, truffle fries for $9, liquor $28, and you can see total sub total here with the service with the tax right service tax, service charge, and liquor tax, and finally you can see a sales tax here with $110.13 output. Okay, so now going back, this is looks about CSV file, and I think we have one more, which is reimbursement dot database. So here, actually, it will tell you based on the designation how much amount this person is. Okay. So let me see. I mean, they didn't give the breakdown, but this has three tables, I believe. I believe so. We can again have a look once we run this. Going back again. So I think yeah, they didn't talk about. It's okay. That's fine. I think these voices are coming from their employee details, past reimbursement, in person voice. So this would be in that database, the reimbursement or database, right? Which we have. So these policies would be coming from there. Okay. So we again have a look. So now we do worry. Right. Once we run this, you will get to see those tables also. Yeah. So that's pretty much it. So we know what needs to be done. We have the tables. We have the data with us, right? So now what I'll do is once we come back in two minutes, I take a small break because I do have a hard stop at by 1110, so I don't want we want to make sure we complete it by then, right? So once we come back, I quickly give a quick half a minute overview, like how can you create the secrets, how can you access it, right? We are doing it for this project, so that's great. We're not doing it in the actual notebook, but this notebook I have changed, right? So we can again. I'm going to share this notebook also at the inversion, right, for a better visibility. So yeah, let's come back. And meanwhile, what I'll do is just make sure we have the packages installed. We come back, so we should be ready to go, right? So I'll just put some files here as well, my database and the trigger builder CSV. We are using MCP, but like I said, we are going to create an MCP server on this notebook only, a fast MCP server. Okay, so that will be like a handshake mechanism for us. Like where we will pass this query to a notebook, that MCP server will process it to a database.

This database which you see right, this one here, reimbursement database. So it will create. It will give you all the tables, SQL queries, and all, and we will proceed from there. Okay, so that's pretty much it. Yeah, let's catch up in two minutes from now. I'll plug in the charger also, and I'll make sure the installation is ready right time we come back. Okay, so see you in two minutes from now. And as a gender crown. Okay. Perfect. Let's get started. So let me make it full screen. If you guys can see, it doesn't make many difference, much difference, but still fine. Yeah. So I'll do back and forth, okay, with the presentation and all. So the solutions are packages are installed here, so no surprises whatsoever, right? So we have LangChain, fast MCP, right? This is what you need because you're setting up an MCP server today on the notebook only, right? That's where you use fast MCP, and then you have traditional MCP to connect to external world, which we are not doing. So maybe if you want, you can drop it. That's fine, and we'll make sure that that once the server is up, right? You can make as many calls to it, right? Asynchronously, right? So that's why we are using our Nest Syncio package also. okay. If we get some error, that's fine because we are using some older version of it. So let let it be. That's fine, right? It's not going to make any difference. And then what here we are using all the capabilities. What we have SQL database since we are accessing dot database file, right? So we need SQL database capabilities. Then you are including a land graph, so traditional library which you are using for a while. Now try to understand this, right? So we are going to send an email. Okay. So how the output will look like is let me quickly show you up here. Okay. Com. I'm sorry, I get so many emails, right? So reimbursement, yeah, it's not here. Maybe let me go to the second email. Okay, so this is what you're going to get: reimbursement decision for transactions. So we have to send an email. Also, the reimbursement team or the finance team will send the will send the email that if your reimbursement has been approved or rejected, right? So for this, we need these libraries also, right? Like Mime Text, Mime Multipart, right? So this is what needs, okay? Technically, so again, think of it like like a SMTP library which you need right to send the email to a to a mailbox, okay. So for that we are using these libraries, okay. REST is very straightforward using MCP, so you have to send the data over HTTP, right? So because we are using this in the same notebook, so that's why you can use HTTP streamable. You don't need the JSON RPC for that because you're not accessing external database, right? So, whenever we do local streaming, right? Local data exchange, we use HTTP streamable because that's like think of it like a simple mechanism, okay? But when we do external, like in our example, which I do for the GitHub, right? Git GitHub one, that will use a JSON RPC, okay? So we are using simple HTTP client for the streaming or sending the data, sending and receiving the data. Okay, simple terms. Perfect. Yeah, that's all. So now this is how you can set up your email credentials. Okay, now when you're sending a data, right, you need some sort of apps. So I'll quickly go through it. What you need here is, let's say you go to your email, right? So you have to click here and just go to your manager Google accounts, okay? So you will be here, and then what you have to do is you have to set up the application passwords, okay? So this is so app password you are able to use like you can send the email to different parties, so you need that password, okay? This is different from your actual password which you have. So just a FYI, okay? So this again thing, copy like when you sending an email, you need some sort of credentials, right? So you can go here to app passwords, okay? Okay, I'm here. I use multiple accounts, right?

So that's why it will ask me for that indication. That's fine, right? So you can see here these are all the passwords I have created. Okay, so we can again just say okay, mail whatever file whatever you want to say, right? Just say create, okay, and the this will be popped up. So you have to make sure you copy paste this up, okay? Either to your address or to your secrets, but you have to copy paste this up to make sure that it can, you know, support sending the email from your email to the other parties. Okay. Hope this makes sense. Why do we need app password? Nasrin, this is a requirement from Google, right? That's we're using. If you're using a Gmail account, you have to have your password. Okay. Then only you can send the email. So think like a like a protocol. Okay. So you need that because otherwise, how will you authenticate? Let's send off this way: like I am sending an email, but it wants to make sure that I am on who is sending, who is through which you are sending an email, right? Just think like authentication. So you need it, okay? So going back to my notebook here. So once you get, I show that this password to you. Just make sure you copy paste this up in your config.json. Okay, or like I said, we are going to use these secrets. So anywhere you're comfortable with. Again, like I said, don't want to violate. Okay, the existing functionality of learning. So I stick to the basics, but here, if you see, just give me a sec. Okay, let me just make it. Just want to make sure I'm showing you the correct part of it, right? So, compute.json. If you open this, would be the thing here, right? Let me open this again once quickly. Okay, so here you can see I'm passing my sender email, who who from which you send the email, right? The email ID and the app pass. So now this is therefore generated a lot of those, right? If you can see in my screen, so you just app pass which you have email. Only then this email can send the emails to different parties. Okay, so again an auth mechanism. Okay, so now you can save it as a config or JSON if you want. Just use it there as as such. Or what you can do is, like I said, a better way of doing it is, I have a secret here. Okay, so you can copy all those key value pair. The key is this open API key. Open API key. The value is the actual token, right? Similarly, you can grab all the keys, okay, and paste it here, like a new secret. The key, the value. Now, the best part about this is right, like it gets stored permanently there, so you don't have to read the config register every time. You don't have to load it. Okay, when you are using your collab, it's become so. I'm sure if you are working in a production system, this is media authentication, right? This is like a access key, a secret key. So that gets stored at one. Even data breaks when I am using it, right? It gets stored only once. I just have to log in, accept, just say start, and then it will call this access key at the backend. It authenticate me and give me the access to my notebooks. Okay, and all the credentials here. So this is like a more standardized way of productionizing stuff. Okay, instead of always any every time manually using the config or JSON. Okay, so again, this is what I am making. This is the code I have already commented out. If you're not comfortable with this approach, perfectly fine. You can just you can just comment this and comment the controlization part. Okay, perfectly okay, totally all about okay. So we'll use all these keys now. All the passwords and the emails. Now these three things I've added from my end: LangChain. You can comment it for now. Like I said, I just want to show you like how you track like at each step what is happening when you run the Lang graph, right? Agents, you have tools. You want to see what each step is doing. Traces.

That's what we call it, right? So for that purpose, I have enabled this Langsmith tooling. Okay, and so do. you want to do that right now? I say no. Please, that's not a mandate. You can just comment it out and just live life freely for now, right? But if you want to track it up, then you have to follow this step. Okay, that's the only place. Okay, so yeah, let's go back. What you guys are saying? The notebook you have access to is that what you're saying? What you will share? I will homework and notebook and send an email. Luke, I think the notebook what they shared on Lampus dashboard, right? The reimbursement automation, like the project one. So what I am saying is, you can use that existing one. I have no issues, but all these changes what I am referring that may not be visible. Okay, and the one which I shared with you, MCP one, that's mine. So I'm going to share that post class. Okay, if you have any concerns, just leave your comment, and I'll have a look again. Makes sense. I hope making things difficult for you as. Okay, like I said, you have to implement it first, and then you will get a feel, right? So unless you can't implement, it's difficult to relate, right? So run it first, and then you will get comfortable or familiar with the stuff. Okay, so yeah, this is all all the key value pairs. If you're not okay with this approach, like I said, just uncomment this code. Make sure you have your config.json have all these, you know, API, open API key, GE will have passwords, sender email. That's it. If you have to, you don't have to run this code. Okay, just uncomment the confit.json and live life freely. Then now we have to set these environments. Okay, make sure because you will use it throughout the notebook. So we are setting up the environment here so that this value become consistent throughout. Okay, so you don't have to set these values again and again. Let's say notebook. So this becomes your global variable, right? Okay, that looks good. Now, if you are using Landsmith again, like I said, for the tracking capability, like you want to track each and every built every tool, you can use. You have to you have to enable this, right? This this code again obstetr. So you can and you can comment it if you're not comfortable with Langsmith. Just comment it and it will run. Okay. Or worst case, you can take the note notebook which you have on Olympus dashboard. That will also work. Okay. So I'm just using it for my tracking purposes because when I run the when run when I run those three test cases, right? I will show you how we track in a real world scenario in a production world. Okay, again, this is just a tool, so don't don't get stressed out that this is what what it is. It's just like a tool which can give you a UI based lookup for each of the nodes which you are creating in your land graph. Okay, and finally, you know we use GPT 4o for LM, right? So I'm setting the LM here. No nothing, no surprises whatsoever. So this is all done. We have all set up and everything. Now let's go back. Okay, look, I'll have a. Like I said, I'll just talk to you. We can have a chat after the session. Okay, great. So now what I'll do is just load in the data, right? Whatsoever we have triggerable.cas with the OCR one, then we just can just see we have employee ID name and raw bill, right? What how much bill they submitted and all that stuff. So here you can see raw bill content, Maple Iron House Steakhouse, sorry Maple Iron Steakhouse. This is Chicago, Illinois. Right. So we have three employees. I think Amit and Neha and someone else. We have three people here, right? This is in the bills, and you can see the total bill here with with the breakdown on the taxes as well. Okay, and this also talks about which restaurant you're going, right? With the address and the invoice details. Now this is what I was talking about, right?

Since we are creating an in-house MCP server, so we will use a fast MCP. We call it as demo, and the local host would be like the local IP would be 127.0.0.1. That's our default, right? So that's we're going to use a 8000 port. Because like I said, we're not going to any external world. We are creating the MCP server ourselves in the notebook only, and then here we will do a hand check with the database. Okay, so that's how we create a MCP fast MCP. Now I'll take a pause. Okay, now MCP setup is done. What I will do is I'll just show you what tools you are going to use. Okay, so first would be the SQL MCP tool. Now what this will do, okay. So think of it this way: this employee is director of the company. So how entitlement does it has? So this tool will connect to your SQL. The SQL what we have here, right? The reimburse window dot database. So this will connect to this database. You can see connecting to database path. We will pass a query also, right? It will give you details like okay, mr. Amit have which is a CEO of this company have a limit of $5,000 as a as a accommodation right something on those lines okay so this this is what this function is going to do okay so this is a tool so I look up to based on the employee ID and the name how much entitlement the person has for their specific lodging or a fooding capacity. Okay, so we got the first tool, and we use MCP dot tool decorator so that it explicitly knows that using an MCP tool here. Okay, so that can be accessible through a MCP server instead of the direct database access. So this will enable through this fast MCP server, you can do a SQL query to the database. What we have, which is reimbursed from the database, we try to answer these questions. Okay, like I said, once you will see it only then you understand. Okay, so every time on on a on a simple note, every time you can't show this notebook to your subject matter experts, right? Who is actually the evaluators of your performance of the LM, right? Like if I'm designing the system for my finance team, okay, they can ask questions and say why this output, how this output is coming, okay. So think of it that Langsmith tool is actually a tracking of each and every step, like what output, what input you have given to this node, what output you got, and what's the reasoning behind it. So that ways, it's become easy to explain this to your subject matter experts. Okay, that's why we need language. Like, like I said, I don't want to complicate it further, right? So think of it this way: a simple tool which can give you a breakdown. A non-technical person can use it, okay, for their own purposes to get the understanding. Okay, you can also use it yourself by by all means, but this also helps a lot of business team to get a better visibility on. Okay. Okay, perfect. Yeah. Then going on the second tool, what we are going to use is your email. Okay, because like I showed you that email, that that email has to go with the decision that if your person has been approved, how much amount it has been approved, and what's the rational behind it, the reason, and the final thank you note, right? So that will so this will you can see senders take a sender email, the password which you're sending, right? Receiver email, the body, right? So this is again just a boilerplate code where you can see I'm just sending over the details here. What SMTP is your protocol through which you can send an email? Okay, so don't again worry on the coding part. Like I said, I don't want to read the code, but in simple terms, what this is doing is taking all the inputs, right, your user details, creating a email and sending it to the recipient. That's it. Okay. Perfect. So the two tools now have been defined for you. I think we are going to use these two tools, right? The SQL tool and the mail two. Now I'll take a pause. Okay.

It's quickly just going back to our presentation. Also, make sure we didn't lose anything. Right. So this is like set up here. Lang graph, lang chain. We're using SMTP for the for the emails, right? Fast MCP. We have already set up right the server. SQLite and SQL Del Cami. So this is like it's going to read three tables, which is there in that database, right? And then we are using Nest Async IO run that the Jupyter notebook and because we have set up a server, right? So that server should always be up and running. So it can take as many requests as possible. So asynchronous requests it can take. It don't have to go sequential. You can call it any time from any of the code execution block. Okay. So we have that this text setup is done. So this is the first two we talked about, right? Run SQL. So here's some examples. Connect to a database. Execute the SQL query and give me the output. Right. So you can see columns and rows. It can give. We have defined a send email. Okay. It will take all the details of the sender, password, receiver, and SMTP port also. Right. And then it will send and send the message and log in. Okay, so we'll again define this. Forget we already have a local server MCP host at 120 7.0001. Okay, so I'll stop here. I'll toggle architecture. Let's see. Okay, now we have defined the server. You can see right up here MCP, but now we have to start it. Okay, so how we can start the MCP server, right? So here it is as the simple breakdown. MCP server, think of MCP server as a tool hub that can connect to host business capabilities. Like in our case, it can connect to a SQL database. We are reimbursing the database. It can also connect to your Gmail, right? Gmail account that can also add a bridge between your notebook, which you are dealing with, and the real-world actions. Okay, so if it says AI, what it means, it can also we are using a GPT 4o right as AI agent also. So we'll get the details. We'll feed it to the AI agent for the reasoning capability, right? I'll show you that. Think of it this way: once your policies are like you retrieve the policy, you retrieve how much amount the person has. So now you will give all that details to your chatbot and say, you know what? Based on assume you are a finance, you know, approver or finance manager approver, and this is the this is the amount, and this is the entitle amount. How will you behave, or how will you will you approve it or not? Right. So assume you are taking that responsibility. So that's where the agent will use this reasoning capability. Okay. So tooling is doing all the data, you know, extraction. But then, once data is there, you will feed that data to your LLM, and the LLM will decide whether the reimbursement should happen or not, depending on, of course, its cap. You are going to write a prompt for it, right? So that's what okay. So that's why they have added AI agent also. But ideally speaking, again, like I said, MCPE is very different from AI agents, right? AI agent can consume time output from MCP, but they will never be an MCP. Okay, they are the decision making or action taking capabilities. Okay. Okay, moving back. So starting the server in the background now. So this is how we start, so that it will be long lived. Long lived meaning as long as your notebook is up and running, right? You want to make sure server is up. So we'll make sure it's up and running. You can call the tools in the actual response, and it will be a two-way communication between your client and the server. So client in in this context is your notebook only. Server, of course, is fast MCP, right? So this is like a traditional handshake. So first we will start the MCP server, right? This is how we do MCP dot run trans mode. Like I said, this is local, so we are using Steamable STTP. So it's a protocol, the handshake, right? That's what it's doing. Starting the MCP server here, and we will be running.

See here, daemon thread is running up, so we'll create the daemon thread so that it keeps on running. Just give a moment to initialize and set up right for two seconds, and here you will see now will MCP server is started on at this URL at this location. Okay, so you can see fast MCP two dot 14.4 is coming install update available. They are saying just to if you want to do an update, right? So here you can see started MCP server and run it. So MCP server is up now. This can take the request and handshake with the database, or it can take the request and go to your GCP. Sorry, not GCP, your Gmail, you know, SAPP server and send the emails. Okay, so that's up and running. Okay, so I'm seeing some Langston tool that shows. Oh, thanks, Brian. Thank you so much. That's helpful. Okay, so that's perfectly fine. I was asking why this is a simple case. Why do not use the tools in the engine without MCP? So I think yeah. This in this specific example, I'll say I don't disagree with you. Okay, because we're doing it everything locally, right? That's perfectly making sense. Like that's why I added this GitHub example, right? I do agree with with you on this. But there's a there's a catch which I want to explain this to you, right? Like when we set up something on Lulaymen, right? Like in our workspace. Okay. Now again, this is very, very I'll say organization specific. Okay. Not every time, but true that we only have one MCP server installed in our Lulayman, you know premises, and that MCP server talks to the sales team, to the merchandise team, to the delivery team, to the DC team, right? Different teams, what we have there, right? So in a way, I'll say this replicates the same stuff. Okay, not a problem at all. But yes, to your point, if you have let's say five company, five different business units, each owning its own MCP server, right? So in that perspex, in that case, I'll say yes. This will not be the best assumption, right? But and that that's where you have to write those code which I showed you, right? The different MCP servers, like with one with GitHub, let's say, or GitLab, the other one with the sales server, MCP server that can have their own different implementations, right? So in that case, maybe this code will be helpful, right? In this example, I do agree that yes, if you're if you have everything in house, like you have a very impressive database here, you have your trigger build or CSV. This may not be your best example, right? I totally agree with you, but again, looking at the complexity, how things, how people can understand. They don't want to keep it very complicated. Okay, and unfortunately, again, like I said, I don't have the visibility on the content, so I'm not going to comment on it whether this makes sense or not. But yes, to your point, if you're doing everything in house, then maybe you can simply access to a database, you know, and get the details. I totally agree with you on that. Okay, but one thing I would like to still highlight here: when you're connecting your MCP with the GCP, right? That's something which maybe I'll say can make a difference, right? Here, not entirely, but yes, when you're using an app password, that's where it's connecting to your SMTP or I'll say your Google MCP. So I won't completely disagree that this is completely not reusable to a certain extent. Yes, I'll say the Gmail capability, which you're using, the mailing capability, that can have some sort of you know MCP element in. Okay, so I'll stop here now. Like I said, I really can't go keep on dragging this further. I'll explain this, Victor. So decorator is just like annotation, right? Like this will be acting as a tool. That's what the purpose of the decorator is, right? Decorator function, so that you can clearly mention that this is this looks like a tool. So that's why we expressly decoration is nothing but annotation.

So annotated that this is your MCP tool, this is your agent, this is your you know a mailing tool, so we just use it as a decorator to explicitly mention when you because when you try to see the graph, right? Maybe some people will ask, is it a tool or is it a agent? I don't know. So we use a decorator function there to make sure that this looks like a tool, okay? Or MCP too. So that's the whole purpose of decorator here. And this purpose is okay. Yeah. So let's now get started. Like I said, let's complete the notebook first, and then click all your follow-up questions. So my apologies again. So I'll just make sure we complete this. Now we have a MCP URL here, right? Again, the same endpoint, API endpoint, whatever we want to say, right? Same thing. And these are the functions which will technically, you know, help you to read the response or get the or write the response, right? So when you're sending a SQL query, you get some output. So that would be a write HTTP, right? Streaming. When you're sending a read request, that would be a read HTTP stream, right? So we are just defining those functions here: read, write, stream. Okay, depending upon the write or read request. Okay, so it will call these send or receive functions. Again, not not a rocket science. Just like as as I said, MCP server is communicating through an HTTP streams, right? So that's we're just defining a function. We can just pick what is it a read or write operation, and depending on it, trigger the streaming, okay. So this will just set the read and write stream here. And lastly, this is an important function call. This I'll definitely cover. Like this is making sure your MCP server is up and running, establishing the selection session between read and write streams, and which tool you want to call. Is it like a SQL tool or is it like a email tool, right? And that result return the result in a clean patable format. But this all can happen without any synchronous issues. It can happen asynchronously. That's why we are defining a synchronous function here, MCP to call async. Okay. The whole purpose of this is it can do a read-write operations. You can see here this function is doing that, calling the fun, calling the exact stream depending on the read or write operation. Once it gets the output, it will parse it, convert into a JSON, JSON dot loads. So load s means string. So get a text in this in a text string format and convert to a JSON. So think of this way, like when you are wrapping your output, okay, it will be a JSON output, and it will be read over on HTTP. So because when you are sending a information, right, it has to be in a stream because using HTTP, right? I think the end result is that whatever results you are getting, crisp, you convert it into a JSON format and send it to the output. That's what we are doing here. Okay, raw text is here. Convert to dot text. Otherwise, if something fallback happens, something goes wrong, it will still convert it to a string, and you get the results back. Okay, so that's what this function is technically trying to do. Okay, just like a I'll say a ETL part of it, like when you're sending something on STTP, how can you get the response? I'll say ETL process, right? When you are doing a handshake with the server, like what information it gets shared or get gets from the server. Okay, then again, since we're running a notebook, we want to make sure all the synchronous calls are sync, or all the calls are synchronous. Like you can call this from this node, from this block or the block later. Doesn't make a difference, but it will make sure it will be safe, right? Safe wrapper. So that is the notebooks runs already run in the event loop, right? Sync function directly can cause errors like runtime error, like event loop is already running, like you're already running a server in there, so that's why we'll expose it as synchronous wrapper, just to make sure that whatever tool is called, like that tool completes itself. That's what it means, right?

Like if I'm using an email function, it will send the you know email to a specific destination and comes back. So think of it this way: like yes, you can have as many, like you can have like one email call, two SQL calls. That's fine. But within those calls, they those options should be completed. Like if you're sending a like five email calls, all those five email calls should complete itself. So that's what it means here, right? Within each operation, that should be complete. That should be synchronous. Like it's not like that you are waiting for the email to be sent. That should not be a case. Man says that should complete. Okay, so that's why we are wrapping it in the in this event to prevent this event loop running runtime. Okay. Okay, perfect. So now this is what we are going to use a wrapper here, just to make sure those functions individually completes its execution, right? So we'll call an MCP tool call with run SQL. That's what we're defining here. Database path is reimbursing our database, and the SQL query what you're going to pass. So this will be like a MCP run SQL. That's the first function, and the second function is here, which is MCTP send email, right? So you again have the email, what's the subject and the body you're passing. You will send your Gmail app password. Very important, otherwise it will throw an error, right? So make sure you have it set up, and once this is done, it will send in email to this function. Okay, perfect. So this is the database path, right? You have it here. You can just copy the absolute path here, right? Contentium percent of database. You, I'm using a SQLite, so it will take the URI, right? The exact identifier there with the database path. Strip all the backslashes to avoid any errors in the absolute path. Now this is where I am getting database from the URI, passing the LLM and database name for now, right? And this will give you all the tables what you have, right? In this, all the tooling capability. So let's run this and see what we are, what we have in this database. Okay, SQL tools. So here it is. Input to the SQL detail and correct SQL query. Output is result from a database. If the query is not correct, returned. Okay. And here you have the schema info SQL database tool, comma separate list of tables. Output is schema and sample rows for those tables. Okay. And then you have a SQL database query checker also. This is again coming from your all the capabilities what it has, right? Query SQL checker tool. I think that's what we are seeing. So these are all the tools available in the SQL toolkit, right? Or list of all the tables. Understand along the agent to understand what data source check things like a genie, right? Like or sort of like these are all the tables what you have and what what what does they do right in a nutshell. Then you have a schema that will fills the schema of the specified tables. You need it right. You want to understand what different columns you have. What what those within those columns? What are the is it a varchar? Is the date right? So that helps to understand like is it a string or is it a varchar? Mostly in SQL, I think we have varchar, right? Variable characters in there. So data types, what you have in there, and then have a SQL database query checker also. So that will make sure that the query what you're feeding is valid or not, safe or not, technically correct or not, right? If you're passing a wrong SQL query, it will it will fail, right? So that's around it. Okay, so now what we will do, right? We will use a generate SQL function that will convert your natural language question. Now again, assume these people are not SQL experts. Okay, so we will pass a simple query. Okay, you know what? I have this table. Can you give me top five or give me the most? Like depending on the destination, what what sort of entitlement we have and food, right? So you will pass a natural language query.

You're not going to pass as equal because they are not subject matter expert. They are subject matter expert. They are not the technical people, right? So we will say here convert a natural language quotient into a valid SQLite select query. Okay, what this function will do, of course, that will retrieve all the tables that are available, fetches the schema information from the LM to generate SQL under strict root. We are using LM write will generate the SQL for you, and then validate the SQL before allowing it to be used, validated, right? So get all the tables from here. You can see it will get all the list of the tables what you have, it will give the schema for each of the tables what it has, right? Depending on table names, and this is a prompt here for for your agent, right? SQL generator will create one SQL query, no markdowns, no explanation, use only the table columns, preferred termistic results, return rows, category whenever possible, right? Because that's what we want to return for a specific category. How much amount is available to that employee, right? In there. So we are enclosing it in a string again. Parenthesis, table, schema, request, and then finally, LM will take that prompt, do some reasoning, right? Create the SQL queries here, and finally, you can see SQL. It will also check the final query which has been returned. Is it valid or not? So SQL checker will validate the query: is it correct or not? By calling this invoke function, and finally it will also check if this has select statement or with statement also or not, right? And then finally, it will return the SQL query. Okay, so this is like generate SQL, validate it also at the same time, and that's where this function is to end. Okay, finally, now let me take a pause. I know this looks we can get lost very easy in in the weeds, so let's do this and the architecture also, right? Real quick, so that you understand what what's happening behind the scenes, right? So the Langgra, what we are going to create now, okay? So that will have these many elements in there. So think of these are the notes what we are going to create. So first one definitely will have a build structure that will have all the OCR text, what you have, right? The employee name, ID, and the bill, and then we have a guardrail. Okay, so this I'll explain you in detail. What does it mean? Simply speaking, if you are feeding someone, let's say the actual bill is $20, and you type, you did a typo, you type it $30 or something, right? So that's again an error because your actual bill is not resonating what you're claiming for, right? So that again, just a check. So that's what the guardrail is. That's making sure that if something looks odd in the bill, you have to correct it up. Okay, so restructure it again. That's what it will do. Apply the correction, and then what this will again, the other node would be policy cap. Okay, like as a employee entitlement, I have for that specific travel or the food policy, right? Depending on it, it will check for the utilization lookup also quickly utilize, see how much, how many of that amount you have already utilized because it's a yearly limit, right? So if you already have exhausted, how much limit you have exhausted, right? Then we'll calculate the reimbursement depending on how much is the limit, how much you have used, how much is the remaining balance, and that will be the reimbursement calculation. And that decision rationale will be again depending on if you have any buffer for this year or not. If you have a buffer, they will reimburse the remaining buffer. If you don't have it, they will again tell you why it's not having it. Right? Generate the email. Finally, this will where we call the MCP Gmail MCP and finally send the email. So these are all the notes you're going to have it now. Again, I know this looks very high level, so we'll break it down into steps and pieces, right? So this is where you can think of like where the short term memory will live because Lang graphs mostly are short now.

Once you once you run it in that state, yes, it will be. But as long as you disable your notebook, it will forget everything, right? So here is all the input fields: so employee ID, employee name, raw bill, receiver email. You have the structured bill here with the vendor details. We'll go through this. Just hear me loud for now, and I'll definitely go through the all the elements there, right? Where you have a travel bill amount, the hotel bill amount, others bill amount, miscellaneous, right, which doesn't come into food, travel, hotel. Then you have a guardrail here, which says structuring decision, approve, block. What's the ratio date? Maybe the amount is not matching, right? Something on those lines. Then we have a policy utilization. This will come from reimbursement database, right? Where it will be have food, travel, hotel reimbursement limits per employee per designation. Approved amounts is also here. How much is approved amount? What's the calculation summary? Depending on how much you have utilized versus how much is the limit, right? So that's where it gives it the approved amount, and finally it will send a email there. Okay, so yeah, let's go through this. This first is a process restructuring. Now, I'll take a pause. I'll go back to the notebook. I want to make sure you understand all this right here. So this is here. Now you're defining your agent state, okay, which will have all the nine elements which I showed you, all the variables with it, right? So here you can see we have employee ID, name, raw bill. Then you have all the bills related to a structure, vendor details. This is all coming from your bill details, right? Then you have a rational decision whether the approved amount has been approved or not, right? Apps coming from your reimbursement database. How much is the limit? How much is the utilization? How much is the approved amount? If it's approved, how much is it? What's the ratio behind it? And finally, the your receiver and sender email details. Okay, so these all variables have been defined in agent state. Rakesh, I'll take all these questions. Okay, like I said, I'm just going to take all the questions and park it here. That's great, but I'll definitely come up with that. I just want to make sure we complete this for this little endier, as expected. And then now this is your first function, right? Your build structuring node. So what this will do is it will convert your robber into clean, standardized expense breakdown. Okay, so that's where it will extract all the vendor details, date, category-wise amount, and total. Okay, so I'll go back here. This is the first one, process restructuring. That will actually extract your vendor category amounts. You can see from Robin into JSON. Okay, so this is the prompt. You are a senior corporate expense analyst specializing in vendor agnostic expense normalization. You will get a raw input bill. Okay, this is how it look like raw bill. And now the objective here is to extract the date. You extract them in the details, like vendor, as in like the service provider, right? From where you are consuming the food or you are staying right. The hotel, or I'll say the the specific entity which various men need, right? So you can have a vendor name, address. If it's not returned, say null portable amount, total for food, beverage, liquor, and the tax associated with this as well, right? If none, return zero. Same with travel amount also rideshare, rental cars, total bill amount also room charges, lodging fees, occupancy taxes, right everything, and then the total other amount also like laundry, parking, internet, and ambiguous items. If again nothing returns zero. Okay, so total bill should now find total bill status should be equal to some of the above fees. So it's not like you're saying I'm claiming for $200, but the total sum sums at $100. That's again, again it will be a guardrail. A guardrail will be flagged, and again you will ask to revisit it, right? Because it's strong, correct? So it is all the categories here: food, travel, others, and this is the output format you're looking at, right? Date, winter details, food bill amount, travel bill amount, total bill amount, right? You know all the numbers here.

Some constraints you can, okay, no mark, no explanation, just extract, okay? No, don't guess. If it's zero, it's zero. Keep it null. Be conservative. What it's, and then finally you are feeding all the details which you know which you define the agent state right for the details here with the amounts. Okay, this is what it is doing. Build sectoring node. Then we have a second node which is guardrail node. Okay, so this would be a audit checkpoint. So like I said earlier, you you get you feed that doesn't reflect the actual amount in the bill. Okay, maybe you feed $100 into food, but it's only $50 in the bill. So again, a red flag, right? Can't so that vacation can't proceed further. So here it is. We can now see senior corporate compliance auditor, expense auditor, right? Check the total category. Check the total for each category. Okay, so you have a raw bill, then you have a structured bill output, which extracted from the above, you know, tool. And here you can see the additional objective expense if all categories amount can be derived from explicit bill, right? So if you claim what you're claiming for is what is reflected in that bill. That's what this checking up. Okay, so evidence-based composition check totals may be completed by summing base targets, explicit label taxes. So sometimes it happens that your taxes are not inclusive, right? So that you have to sum up properly. Arithmetic composition is allowed and expected. You must include all the taxes here, right? Applicable taxes, right? And only from raw bill, you have need to have a category integrity as well, right? Like food mains, beverage, food, liquor, liquor tax, total means, lodging fees, room charges, travel means, transport taxes, right? And all arithmetic consistency. Each structure category should explicitly equal to its recomposition total, right? The com like summing up plus decomposing area should be equal, and no rounding. You can see and no total rounding exemptions should be equal to total bill amount to travel and total expenses, right? So decision rule is simple. Approval block. That's what it means, right? And the rational list if blocked, identify the exact category where the pneumatic mismatch is happening? Right, if approved, say that tools are domestically right and tax inclusive. That this is good to go. Then you can go to the next step, which is your reimbursement. Okay, and again, the decisional is here. Simply approve a block, and you will see a rational other reason behind it also, like why you approve or why you reject it? Making a call here, right? Searching and just feeding, like populating the two decision and rational variables also. Okay, makes sense. I know it's a little detail, so I'll see you know if I can skip the baller plate or start of things and just explain the the rational behind it. Okay, I like I welcome all these questions, but I can't explain this at this point of time, right? So I'll definitely come back and talk more about this. Then process build restructuring. Now let's say if the amounts are not matching, right? So what you have to do in that case? Okay, so you are a senior corporate expense analyst. Again, you have to correct the previously blocked expense structure. Okay, where you where the mismatch is happening idly. So you get a raw bill, you get a structured bill, you get a structuralization like where the fault is or the problem is, right? So you go again here and check the correction principles. Source of truth is your raw bill. On source of truth, do not assume anything. Okay, scope of action is only change those fields where it has been flagged incorrectly. You don't have to change all the fields there, right? Do not alter any of the fields there. Tax handling is mandatory, right? Any other taxes, liquor service tax has to be accumulated right in one. If tax distribution is unclear, include under others. Okay, if tax is not there, then the rules again same rules applies. Hotel food and beverages. Sorry, hotel food and travel education and safety. Do not introduce new vendors. Okay, if you don't see the vendor, don't assume it's. Let's just get a new vendor out of it. Okay, don't hallucinate. That's what it means, and the value cannot be correctly identified.

Then use zero for monitory fields, null for text fields. Again, check the consistency arithmetic, right? Which we saw earlier as well. If nothing is there, just return zero, and this should be the output format here, right? So again, emphasize the same format which we use in the first days, right? So all the amounts and the numbers there, and finally again you can see we are pre again populating all the values right from the first days if this has been rejected. Okay, perfect. So this is your bill restructuring node. Just going back again, just consuming all the outputs what you have here. So you can see build structuring remote only flagged fees loop back to guardrail go back again and check again right if this is correct or not. The fourth one is here we have is the reimbursement cap. So now let's assume let's assume the correct right. We go to the next stage which is reimbursement cap note. Okay, so we'll define here rows to category map. So initially we are defining this as a map with all the zero values, right? Let's assume there is no value in there, and then we are converting once the dictionary comes as a result, right? We have to focus on three fields or keys here. I'll say food, travel, and portal, and if there's anything less than two, we'll continue, right? Like maybe there's a JSON error or something, right? That's what means. Otherwise, it will take the category and the amount, convert into a float, the amount, and then send this dictionary back to the output. Okay, and then the reimbursement cap. So for the employee ID, which you will pass from the state, right? The reimbursement cap will be calculated for all these three fields. Okay, run the. You can now see we are running an MCP run SQL. So this will go to the reimbursement database for that employee ID. Get all the details right for these three categories, and dump it into into a maximum reimbursement cap. And there, we will split it into. We can see right for food, travel, and hotel separately. That would be like one JSON. We will take the individual breakdown, and then we set the limit here. Like how much is the total limit for that employee? So this is all coming from your reimbursing database. Okay, going back. No worries, that's fine. Let's go ahead, and then now we have details note. So now this is previous reimbursement details, right? Because that employee may have claimed this before, right? In the in the previous trips. So again, we'll go to the same same call the same MCP run SQL, right? Yeah, get the utilized cap, okay, and check how much the employee have only utilized in the past. Okay, so that becomes your utilized amount. And finally, your reimbursement. Now, now how much is the reimbursement? In simple terms, I have $1,000 limit. I have gone consume $7 in the food. So how much is remaining now? 1000 minus 700, right? 300. So that's what we are doing here for food, for travel, and hotel, right? You can see, I'm seeing the remaining item. How much is the remaining, and then how much the employee is claiming for, right? So that will be the minimum out of those two. So if I'm claiming for 100 and I have 300 remaining, so you should only reimburse me 100, right? Not 300, of course, right? That's why we are applying a minimum function here, correct? And then we will just simply summary for each food, travel, and hotel. So it's like a dictionary of a dictionary. So again, nothing to worry on the data side. Like I said, on the coding side, just try to think the intent of like how you will design the system. Okay, that's that's more important. Perfect. Okay, so like I said, we almost on the mark. So quickly going back again now. Now reimbursement decision explanation note. So here, what you will do is you will see you you explain reimbursement decisions. Do not change numbers. Depending on how much you have requested, how much you have requested in food, how much is the remaining cap? How much is the approved amount? That's what you are trying to pass it here, right?

In the approved rationale, like you have you have claimed for $1,000, you have already $900 consumed or utilized, but you're claiming for 20 $100, so I can only reimburse $100 because you only have this much limit. So this is the expansion you can expect from the reimbursement decision. Okay, LLM, but invoke the prompt and it will take all details, requested amount remaining approved, and then it will give a reasoning on it. And then finally, you have an email generator, right? This is where you can say corporate finance communication specialist. You have to get a professional or IDC reimbursement decision email. Okay, so here you can see it will send the email, employee ID, the name, transaction details. All the details will be created from the previous agents, right? And the email requirements are here. Read the employee by name, reference, refer the transaction date. Okay, like what you're talking about, the background. Clearly state the reimbursement decision. Include the provided rational, neutral, audit safe manner. Okay, no sentiments whatsoever, and then finally enter the professional finance finance closing. Okay, and here you can see the output would be subject the mail text, and again we will invoke the you know model and send the email text here. Okay, so all the nodes have been defined now. So now, yeah, we are just defining one. Now here you can see that's what I was telling you, right? I know we have set up a fast MCP server here, but we are using send email via MCP, right? So this is actually doing a handshake with your Gmail MCP server. So that's where one thing I'll say no. We are not completely blindly doing it. We are using some sort of elements in MCP, right? Even if you discard using SQL database as MCP, right? You can still we are still using MCP email server here. Okay, send the email to the recipient and the text makes sense. Now we'll make a line graph. Okay, adding all the nodes. So we talked about this already. All gets added. Okay, now there's a conditional edge. I hope you remember this structuring guardrail, right? So if the numbers doesn't match with the bill, okay, what it will do? It will, if it doesn't match, like if it doesn't approve, it will go to restructure, and again call the process will restructure and again check. Okay, so that's where your conditional edge is important. If it goes, if it's approved, then it will go to the next, you know, no reimbursement cap. Okay, and then from there it will just keep on going to previous reimbursement, calculate reimbursement, and all that decisions will be made. Okay, perfect. So let's call this now. Let's run this. I already have defined this upgrade. So now we use a iPython display just to see all the nodes how it looks like. We can see start with process build structuring, structuring guardrail. If something looks off, right, it will again process. If it's approved, go to reimbursement cap. Get the previous details. Calculate the reimbursement is made. Generate the email and send the email via MCP. So I'm using receiver email as anithre50@gmail.com. You can add any receiver email. Not a problem at all. Totally fine, right? If you want 50, you can what 48, whatever whatever email you have, right? You can just send it here. So I'll send in 50@gmail.com. Now let's start with the first output, right? So we'll take we'll take our first test case here. We will pass a triggered bill with the employee ID named Robil, and I'm now just changing the email here, 240 at gmail.com. Again, I'm just experiments, right? So now let's run this. Let's see what happens. Oh, I got an exception. Okay, that's great. So I forgot to define this function. Run this function, right? Rows to category. Let's go here. Maybe I just didn't. That's very important, right? You don't miss out any flow. Okay, I didn't define the function. That's okay. Not a problem. So right once again. So you can see everything looking accepted, okay, right? Because you're interacting the server, right? So get those details, right? Those inputs back. So you can now see send has email has been sent to Anchit 48. Okay, so now we'll talk about each and every output of this, this is a mail text that has been sent.

We are ready to inform you of the decision for 14 01 Oak Street Bistro, right? So requested reimbursement was went at dot 13. The remaining cap is only 590. So only 593 we can be approved for reimbursement. Okay. Now you want to see this here, just go to your Gmail. Go to my Gmail account. I have to wait. I know sometimes it's little slow, right? So that's fine. Let's see here. Let it wait. Okay, then I think we will get the email. That's fine. Okay, detailed walkthrough. I just wait. It will be we are expecting at any time, but yeah, depends again. If it takes time, it's okay. Yeah, that's fine. Let it come. I think I have taken the answerforties email.com. So let it let it. I mean, it will take time to come, but it's okay. We can wait for the for the moment, right? So now we can just quickly trouble track each and every step. Now, what I that's what I was saying, right? Now you can print it here manually and see it, right? If I'm a subject matter expert, I'll quickly go here to my LangChain. Okay, Langsmith, sorry. Okay, and just so you can see, this is what I have got, right? I just ran it at around 11 a.m. You can see this is this is being tracked for the first example. So now you can go process based structuring. What has happened there? Is it an input? Is it pass or is it approved or rejected? Right. So you can see all the fields. The output you can see here is 014 bill amount is this. If I go to the output, it will tell you what's the output here. Is it is approved, right or not? So that's what I'm saying. If you go here, right, see all the outputs. That's where it helps. Yes, all details have been extracted properly. The JSON you can see clearly here, right? So this is a good way of a non-technical person trying to see all the details have been extracted correctly or not, right? This is your STTP output, right? So this again tells you what fees you are talking about. Structuring guardrail, what it does say here is you can see, right? Everything this has been extracted. Now you can see decision is approved, right? So clearly it says yes, whatever the amount was really extracted. So this is what I was saying. Langsmith is really powerful in that way. You can see each and every stage what output you are getting. So what we are trying to do here, you can easily see in the tool. Okay, and each node would be visible. You can just simply click on the input and the output, and you can get all the details there. Okay, perfect. But again, like I said, this is just some optional stuff. Right, you don't have to worry so much because you are still learning, so don't want to laden with so much information. But this is what we do in a day-to-day work, okay, in a production world. So again, printing it once again for you, right? This is about the raw, you know, input. What we have then collected properly with the date, when the details, food bill amount, right? All the that details are here. Then go into the guardrail decision node. You can see it's approved. That's great. So it will now go to instruction regional if you want to see why food amount is derived and tax inclusive matches the sum of base charges and applicable taxes. So it tells you that yes, this is all summed up to exact value what the employee is claiming for. Okay, then policy retrieval. Here you can again see. Okay, food was $100, total was $300, travel was $200. It will also check the history, right, or the price direction check. So previously you can see the employee already has claimed $94.07. Okay, so the remaining is what 100 minus 94 94.07, right? $5 something cents, 8393 cents. So now you can see here, right? So you can see remaining cap is only 593, and now this is what's saying that the full rationale is only 593 because you already have claimed. Now you know, 93 already has been given in the past, right? So the remaining is 593, and they're claiming 590 $3 as a reimbursement.

Okay, makes sense. Let me know if not. Just want to make sure this is coming there or not. Maybe let's see here. I don't think it should be an issue, but I mean, sometimes Google takes time. It's okay, right? Like, really can't blame anyone. That's fine. Yeah, it's still taking time. Let me see in the spam if it is gone. No, it's not in spam. That's great. Taking time. Okay, so that's that's okay. Let it let it take some time. Ideally, should not, but for some reason, I'm not seeing it. I got the I got this yesterday in on time, but sometimes again, depending on the server timeline, all right, it can takes a little bit more than expected. This is what I have received. Yeah, this is I received carefully yesterday, but I don't see it today for some reason. So it will be. It will just take. Just give it some time. It will be back, right? For sure. Okay. Let's run the remaining cases now, right? So quickly winding it up. This is a subject here, mail subject, right? And the email dispatch is here. Ah, okay. Now I got the point because we didn't define the SMTP host. Okay, that's great. Do you see a issue here? That's why the mailing the mail was not there. We didn't send TP host. That's why I was wondering the Gmail should not take that long. Oh, not not a problem, right? We didn't define the SMTP host. That's why it's taking time. Let's run it one more time. That's why it's very important to run all the code, right? If you miss anything, it would be an issue. But strangely, doesn't we didn't report it here for some reason. Anyways, yeah, let's run it one more time. Quite weird because that should throw an error, but we got an error here finally at the end. One and all the checkpoints here exactly it says that you know you don't have SMTP host is not defined. Now. Okay, not a problem, right? Again, yeah. Let's just write it this once again. I hope SMTP host is now being defined. Yep, data sent. Now you received the email quickly in your inbox. Yeah, here you go. Right, you can see this is what you received. Okay, perfect. Right, yeah. So let's quickly wind it up. Let's complete for the remaining ones also. In this case here. Okay. This is employee submitting a reimbursement request that includes food and liquor items with applicable taxes. Okay. Let's see what happens. Now this time I have sent the receiver email to uncheck fifty@gmail.com. Right. So you will receive a separate email there. Now this is the email text. So the requested amount was 217 point 13. The remaining cap is only $54.38. So we can only approve this much. Okay, so the approved amount would be 5438. Okay, now I see email. Like I said, this would be on my 50. So here you can see now 1111 a.m. right reimbursement for Neha same thing maple iron steak house 2017 point 3154 30 has been approved. Okay, and finally before I guys let you go, this is the third one for the output three, which is for reimbursement covering all the three categories: food, hotel, and others. Okay, and total amount exceeds the allowed allowed remaining limit. So what now? Let's see what is happening with Rahul Mehta for food. Request amount is 50 04. The amount was fully approved because it is in the remaining cap of 120 62. Okay, the hotel amount was for 1051. The remaining is zero. So maybe this person have utilized all the hotel amount, right? So can't be reimbursed. Has been denied for 1051. I think that's what he's doing for food and hotel, right? Like said, just go back to the card. I mean, again, like I said, you know, Langsmith. If you want to see each and every part of it, it's easy, right, to troubleshoot from that perspective, or try. That's what we call as traces, right? So it gives you okay, what SQL query have been extracted, right? You can see all these details here: three rows, create table, associate with all the details you can get here, right, from SQL DB schema and the list of tables, what list tables you have in there? Okay, perfect. Now I'll take all the questions.

I hope this makes sense. I think that's what it is, right? So this is all the conclusion we have. Quickly summarizing it up. So we have adopted, of course, MCP based two orchestration. We created an MCP tool here, and then we are orchestrating it with respect to your emailing and SQL to do learning, right? We have automated the compliance stakeholder complaints sending emails. Can we reduce operational errors? I'll say yes, of course, because it's a database lookup, right? So there's no human element there. So at least from a policy lookup perspective, that should not be an issue. Finally, we can also scale this solution, right? Because this is all automated, so of course upscaling it is is not a is not an issue at all. Okay, so yeah, now I'll take all your questions. Thanks again for your super flexibility. So yeah, let's see here. I'll take in sequence. Let's see, start here from Langsmith. I think that's we cover it up. I hope you at least now see Langsmith why it's useful. Okay, you can get the breakdown at each and every step, at each and every node, the input and the output and the ratio, right? Also, we use it for LM as a judge, right? Like, let's say you want to create a model which will validate the output of the previous model, what you have, right? So we, so that again gives you all the you know standard KPIs, like how much is the we call it as hallucination rate, right? Content, content, context match, retrievedness, right? Relevance, groundedness, all these factors. You know you can easily track in Langsmeet again, like is correct or not, and if not, how much is it? And on the scale of one to five. Okay, so Langsmith is not only about tracing; it's also about evaluating the the performance, right? So again, like I said, this will come later at the stage where I think guardrails. But like I said, I want to make sure that you are aware of what we are doing in our day-to-day work, right? That's the whole purpose of having that Langsmith tool. Again, no mandatory requirement to learn this today. You have to learn it after I'll say for two or three weeks before the end of the course. But the sooner you can start with, the better it would be right for you. That's the only thing. But there is no mandatory requirement, right? You don't have to implement all this in your project just for your learning, okay. Okay, I understand you needed to show the example how it was. I was just make sure. Sorry, I just covered this. So, job. So I just understand your thing, and you understand you needed to show the example how it works. I was just making sure. Did you talk about the GitHub example which I took? If I'm missing something here or not, maybe we can just say yes or no. That's fine. Does FastMCP already have SQL database and email server capability, or do we need to provide the code? No, no. So, Akesh, when we import this, right, the SQL utility does already have it. So, all those capabilities already inbuilt in your SQL in your fast, not in fast MCP, but the SQL capability which you're using. Let me let me quickly show you here, right? Okay, sorry about this again. Side effect of you know having three classes. So yeah, here it is. If we go up, right, all the way up. So this already have the functioning capability here, right? Like your SQL database, SQL database get. So Ang chain already have that. Okay, so here you can technically use a validation part and authentication part. The MCPD again is is a server, right? Think of it this way: that it can definitely give you the access to all the external world tools, and the the schema validation and all that that can be taken care by the SQL toolkits. What we have in LangChain, okay? Oh yeah, perfect. What else?

Sorry, just a quick follow. What I meant was the MCP server itself has to know how to reach the SQL DB, so does that once does that come from FastMCP or not not our

no that's a good point that comes from authentication yeah you can think of like a protocol MCP protocols that comes the authentication C again we took that example, the the GitHub example, right? So there was a there was an auth which you are which we created a person access token. Now in this example, I'll say the email access app app password, right? So think of it this way that yes, it's like a gateway. The MCP server is a gateway. The authentication is like it will authenticate you first and then allow you to use the tools internally. So to your point, accessing SQL, yeah, we I think fast MCP does that if you're using it for a SQL SQL operation scene, then yes, it can give you that capabilities like okay see my schema check or the data or the SQL IT check, right? So there can be two things here. Like I said, it also comes with your LangChain authentication capability. It also comes with the fast MCP SQL tooling capabilities. Also, things are possible. Yeah. How do you? Let me quickly see. I think Explain Decorator is already there. MCP and then prevent in this example prompt injection. So Victor, that's a good one. So that's what I said. Prompt injection again is little advanced topic. So for the sake of understanding of the audience here, what he's referring to is let's say if you write a prompt in a text file, right, and that text file gets hijacked. You know, okay. So you say I'm a base administrator and give me all the passwords for all the tables. That's that's possible, right? So that's what we do in this prompt injection field, right? We mostly keep the hard code prompts hard coded in the code itself, so that can't be overwritten. Okay, so I'll I'll explain some more time. Like it's not the right time for now, but I got your point. So, the best way to prevent it is we write the prompts in hard coded way. Like we don't read it from a config file or from from from anywhere above, right? We just kept it hard coded. That's like a safest bet because you no one can override the the hard coded part, right? It's not possible. So again, that's one way. There are multiple ways of it as well. Like I come later on this. It needs a good five-minute discussion, right? Maybe I'll show you some examples. But that's one quick, dirty way I'll say of preventing injection attacks. There. How do you integrate Colab and Langsphere? Now that's a good one, Shiva. So what I will suggest is it's very easy. You go to Langsmith, okay. Go to Langsmith here, and then you have to you have to log email details, right? That's completely feel that's the best part. So you can log in here, okay, and then within this you can create your first app, right? I create multi agents. This is like a project under which you will keep a track of all the agents, right, or all your projects. So create one project. You can see a a tab here, right? Plus projects. You just say plus project here. Add it here, right? And when you are creating your config.json, right? Let me show you the config.json here. I don't think it. Yeah, it doesn't have this, right? So what you have to do is you have to pass all the fields which I showed you right here in this notebook all the way up, right? So these parameters is what you can set. Okay, Langsmith project which I showed you multi agents API key is what you will have to create. So if you go to multi, your Langsmith, right? I think that's where you have to create our key. Going there, all applications. I can do some due diligence on this, but I think it's easy, right? Go to my here. You can see when you create a project, right? It says new. So here you can create. I think this is where it should be settings. Yeah, API keys. This is all the API keys you can see, right? Just click on the API key, and you can get, you can create a, and that that API key is what you have to pass in your configurator JSON or in your Langsmith API key.

So that simple terms is you you will assign a project, and you will assign an API key, and that will be tracked and checked. That's okay. That's how it is. Again, I can give you a demo in the next session. Again, like I said, not a mandatory thing for today, right? It's just optional thing. We don't want you to learn. I don't want to complicate things further, but I want to make sure you have visibility on that. Okay, that's about it. Okay, any further questions for me, guys? Before I let you guys go, see here. Anything else?

Anjit, do you do you know? If you don't know, that's okay. Our project one that we submitted a couple of weeks ago, I still haven't gotten a grade for that. Do you? Yeah, will that be coming soon?

Yeah, that will be coming. I think again. I'm not not the best person, but maybe this week or by the end of this week. That's what my understanding is. Again, I don't have visibility on the dating assessments and all, right? But mostly, it takes two to three weeks to okay. And

then, and then one more question on on the it's back in the week four material. There's a homework assignment. It's called like Code Gen, and it's about used car data. And that's okay as well. But if you are in the in the notebook, you you ask the the you ask the LLM questions and then you evaluate its answer and you give a score. And in my homework, the score that the notebook had was lower than what my LLM my LLM would score the answer higher than what the the example gave. Do do you know? And if you're not familiar, that's okay.

In certain situations, I'll say yes, it is. Did you use the same model, GPT 4o Mini or GPT 4o? So I

use the GPT 4o Mini as the LLM, and then the evaluator is the GPT 4o.

Sometimes it's possible to be honest, Luke. Like because what happens is like when they when it creates because I hope it's creating the SQL also for you right on the fly. So sometimes it does scale of four to five. Maybe it says five. Yours is say four. Slight deviation is possible because if the and I'm again asking because sometimes even the LM because you're using LM as a agent, right? As a as an evaluator, LM. That's what we call it, right? So this is quite possible. Not every time, but yeah, once in like once it's possible that maybe it will rate four at one time, and when you run it again, it will rate five. So depending on that, that criteria can change. So there is some sort of you know ambiguity which can persist. That's why when we work, we use ensemble approach. Like we don't rely only on one agent or LMS agent, or I'll say LM. Sorry, as a valuator, as a judge, right? So we take committee of three LMs, and then it says, okay, what you know, what two is saying five, one is saying four, so we'll go with the five approach. Okay, so I do agree there is a possibility that yes, the result may fluctuate or the reasoning may fluctuate a bit at times. Yeah.

Okay. All right. Thank you. Yeah,

no worries. Yeah, that's all. Is it to trace the token consumptions through tools? Yeah, I think like Udaya, like I said, this is where you can you keep a track, right? Again, that's why the the best part. Again, here is like I said, right? Langsmith, right? You can keep a track of what happened. I'm sorry, guys. I have a hard story. Take my daughter to the to the to her, you know, skating class. But yeah, here it is. You can see quickly. I think it tells you like how many tokens have been consumed. There should be something like a token here, right? Maybe I I can show you here should be somewhere. But but we have a token field, or you can persist it in the tokens, like how many tokens are there. So it will tell you technically how many tokens are there and all that stuff, right? So that's that's quite possible. Maybe it's not can't related right now, but yes, there's possibility that you can keep a, or maybe you can see somewhere in the logs, right? Monitoring, but yeah, there is a way. Yeah, here you can see right trace counts, LM calls, costs, and tokens. Right, so you can see here. Sorry, I just forgot. So, but now I can relate. So yeah, how many tokens are generated? Know how many percent tokens, and that's that's quite possible here. Okay, perfect. Thank you so much, guys. If nothing else, yep, yeah, I'll share the link. It's here. Before I guys let you go, my drive should be in the June. No, we are in June or July. Sorry, I tend to forget, right? But I'll share definitely share this with you, right? If not now, maybe a couple of hours later. But I'll definitely share that. Okay, we already I already have it, but it's just like I have. She will be late, but I'll share this positively with you. Let me quickly see if we have any link July, right? That's where we are, week two. So what I can do is new folder. Let's say week four, right? If I'm not mistaken, and I can keep it right for real quick here. So let me download it. Let me download this one. IPYNB Go back again. These are all the ones. MCP introduction, business, reinvestment automate engagement. This is all the notebooks I downloaded recently. So let me keep this also here for you, and you want the GC, the that one also, right? The GitHub one, right? Yeah, this is important. So I just download this also. Yeah, go ahead. Sorry, saying something. Okay, great. Nothing else. So yeah, thanks again. I know I'm not rushing, but it just like I have a hard stop right. That's about it. So this is all. I'll just share the link quickly. Copy link, and here you go. Okay. Let me know if no if no fund access. It should be to be honest. Should not be an issue. But if not, let me know. Perfect. All good. Thank

you.

Okay. Great. Thank you so much, guys. Nothing else then. Yeah, enjoy. Take care. Bye for now. Okay, stop sharing. Thank you.

I go. but she doesn't have it when she gets up. Yeah. Who

keeps taking the last coke, and then they don't

forget?

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
