So, what are large language models? We call them large language models. Now, these obviously, by the statement, are models of a language. By model, we mean a mathematical model, a mathematical representation of how language works or language is written down. So, to get a good insight on this, let's not consider a large language model to begin with, maybe consider a tiny language model. Tiny language model. Okay, for the let's think what the tiny language model might be, right? So if you think about it, let's say I start with a few sequence of letters in the English language. I say C O M. Then I ask you, what's the fourth letter? Now, if I ask you what's the first letter, you're like, I don't know. But the moment I put first, second, and the third letter, and I ask you, what's the fourth letter? You know for a fact that the fourth letter in the English language, because you've read the English language for quite some time, you know with experience and intuition that the fourth letter cannot be an X. It cannot be certain. It cannot be a Y. You know it cannot be a Z. It cannot be certain characters. But if you ask it, can it be a P? Of course, you say yes because it could be the first four letters of the word computer. It could be the first letters of the word communication with an M here. It could be the first four letters of the word comes C O M E. In your mind, the moment I ask you this fourth, you kind of can enumerate the letters that are possible, and maybe even assign probabilities to that. And that's exactly what a tiny language model might do. There might be a tiny language model. Let's call it tiny language model, and you send in C. It gives you a list of probabilities. You send in next O. Then it refines the probabilities for CO M. For example, you send one at a time COM these as inputs to the model, and after M, you ask what is the fourth one? It could possibly tell you P with a probability of 34% M with a probability of 31% E with a probability of 14% and everything else. What else is possible? B is possible, I is possible, F is possible, and maybe that's it. Okay, with some probability, what does this sum up to? That sums up to almost 80% So we will say the rest is two to 4% each. Maybe the rest and everything else, right? So a tiny language model will take a sequence of characters and give you the probability of the next character. Okay, so that and if I can train some kind of a mathematical representation, okay, train it. Basically, this tiny language model is not smart enough to make these predictions on day one, but what we could do is we could stick a neural network in there that's quite dumb initially, but train the neural network using words from the English language. You know, all the web pages, all the books in the library, all the Twitter feeds, all the Reddit feeds over and over and over again, it reads enough of the language that this neural network is slowly but surely trained to predict characters in the English language. So it knows that Z has a zero probability. It knows that X has a zero probability. Once it does that, then you can sample from this, and today we sample it to be E, let's say. And then we say, okay, now we already gave this. Now you give the letter E, and then you ask the probabilities, and now it's no longer this. After the letter E, if you ask for the fifth letter, and the space is a good probability, the letter D is a possibility. The letter S is a possibility. The letter T is a possibility. Maybe let's say this is a 20% chance. Stopping with if you put a space, maybe this is a 26% chance. This is a 12% chance, and this is let's say a 15% chance, and everything else later, right? So after M, the probabilities change. This model looks at the new input, and with the new input, it changes the probabilities. So you can then sample from this, and take it as a fifth character and keep going.

And all of a sudden, if this model was trained well with ton of data, and it had the flexibility. It had enough of a complexity and the flexibility to capture the nuances of the English language. Then this model will start generating text that looks like human written, particularly because every text it was trained on was human written. This is a tiny language model. Why is this important? Because the tiny language model kind of gives you a sense that what we are trying to build here is not intelligence. No way, it's intelligence. What we are simply trying to build here is a statistical representation of the English language. It doesn't have to be English, by the way. This kind of mechanism will exactly work for any other language as long as I train this tiny language model with that language text. Now, what is a large language model? Quite simple. You take this tiny language model and you increase the complexity. The increase in complexity will allow you to capture more nuances, more Embedded layers of patterns in the English text, not just words with right spellings. Maybe something a lot more nuanced, right? And the second thing we do is now that we can capture a lot more nuances, we don't do character generation. Here, you see, I use character by character, C O M, and I ask for the fourth character. Once I sample the fourth character, I ask for the fifth character. Instead of doing that, people realize well, characters don't themselves have meanings. Maybe we should not do this with characters, but we should do this with words. So every word is considered one input, and you get output for the words. Now, if you look at characters, you know with just small letters, excluding uppercase lettering and including numbers like zero to nine, and then including punctuations and stuff like that, we probably have 50 characters that we commonly use. But with words, we have millions of words, right? So, million possible words can be inputs, and million possible words could be outputs with probabilities each. That's large. 50 characters in and 50 characters out. Maybe we can survive with a tiny mark. But a million possible words in as the input and million possible words as the output. You would really need really need a super large language model, and that's exactly what language models are. Instead of taking three letters, they take three words and predict the fourth word. Once they make a prediction of the fourth word, put it in, and it makes a prediction of the fifth word, and over and over again. That sampling, right? The sampling once it gives the probabilities, me choosing one letter or one word based on those probabilities, it creates randomness. So if you go to any large language model and ask a question, it'll give you a response. You ask the same exact question in a new web browser on the same language model, it'll give you a slightly different response. Not the exact word verbatim response, a slightly different response, and that's because the sampling of these probabilities. Sometimes I pick 14% of the times I pick E, but 31% of the times I might pick M, and 34% of the times I might pick P, right? But this is characters, but it does it in words. So two things I want you to carry forward. First, these large language models were not designed to be anything else other than a very clear statistical model for language completion. So, if I give it three words, four words, five words, it will complete that sentence. It will complete that paragraph. It will complete that response, and so on. Purely statistical model. It was not built to be intelligent. It was not built to be having great amount of knowledge. It was not built to take actions. It was not built for anything else other than just completing your language based on all the patterns in languages it's already seen. That's it. Now let's review what we've discussed. We've said language models are nothing more than language completion models that work this way. Given a series of words, we also call these words tokens. Tokens are slightly different from words, but tokens are what quantitatively we we store words as on a computer.

We, given a series of words, all that the language model does it gives us the probability of the next word, and we can sample from that property and keep going. Now, when people built this, this was great. This was working very well. It was completing sentences as they hoped that it would, but something really surprising happened. This was quite emergent behavior, and language models all of a sudden started to surprise even the people who built it. And large reason was they started to capture more than simple language. Let's take some examples, right? So. So, if I take a pure vanilla large language model, by vanilla large language model, I don't mean the large language model that you get access to when you go to ChatGPT or when you go to Gemini or when you go to any of these websites. What you have is a language model, but there's a lot of engineering layers around it. It sometimes checks the internet. It sometimes does. There's you know there are lots of guardrails and you know knowledge that's been given to it, but you know if you take away all those and simply consider the language completion model, maybe download a large language model on your computer, one of the Llama open source Llama models, and run it without any bells and whistles attached to it, and you ask the weather in Austin yesterday was the language model will complete the sentence, but that sentence will not be factually accurate because the large language model might have been trained with data from 2024, maybe several months ago, right? So if that was the case, then the language model has no way of figuring out what the actual weather was yesterday. Like this is today, yesterday. Like because it was trained way before what yesterday means here, right? So if today is August the 20th and 20th 2025, and yesterday was August 19 2025, and a language model was trained with data from January 2025. That's the last data it's seen. It has no way, but it's not going to tell you the the simple large language model is going to just complete this text, and that's what people freak out and say, "Oh my God, it's hallucinating. Well, it's really not hallucinating. It's really simply completing the language, its language completion. But we kind of look at all the language completions and realize, oh my God! If I ask the language model about something about World War II, it kind of tells me accurately, particularly because it was trained on a ton of text that included different ways of looking at, and different again and again, the language encoded all that happened during World War II. So the language model kind of encapsulated it. So when I ask it for stuff about World War II, it actually tells me almost correctly. But if I ask about yesterday temperature in Austin, it's not going to be able to. So we freaked out and said, "Oh my God, language models sometimes make mistakes and hallucinate. They were not. It's really not the right way to look at it. The right way to look at it is, "Oh my God, we never built it to be knowledge models, but all of a sudden they are nine out of 10 times or eight out of 10 times telling me the right thing, so it's kind of not fair to say the other two times they hallucinated. It's because the word hallucination sounds like it's broken, but the real fact of the matter is eight out of 10 times surprisingly it gave us factual knowledge. So let's start with that. So knowledge. So knowledge. It was not built for being knowledgeable. It accidentally is knowledgeable sometimes, knowledgeable sounding sometimes, but it definitely does not incorporate knowledge, right? The weather in Austin yesterday was it makes up stuff. Now let's take another example. Now John has three apples. He gives away one, then binds four more. He now has, and you ask the language model to give the next words. It's probably going to say six apples. Now that's amazing. That's really surprising. If you think of it as only language completion, it doesn't have to do the math. When you and I look at the sentence, we are in some subconscious level, imagining John, John holding three apples. He gives away one or each one, or gives away one.

He gives it to a friend, and then you think of him as having two, and then you think of you know subconsciously visualize him for a quick fraction of a second buying four apples and then holding six in his arms, right? So we know it's six, but the way we came through this is by picturing it by creating a simple simulation of or simple visualization of what might have happened, what this sentence describes might have happened, and then we use that as logical deduction to come up with six. But the language model came up with six purely based on its ability to complete language, and this part was the stepping stone that enabled agents, as we will talk today, people even who built language models were super surprised that it was able to reason. It was able to reason. We'll talk a little about why it was able to reason, but then let's get to this. Now, so language models surprisingly able to do reasoning. They were kind. Accidentally able to do knowledge, but not always. That's why we always call them hallucinations. But they were able to reason quite well, and that was surprising. There was a welcome side effect, but definitely it was not an objective of build when people are building large language models. And the third part. Now I go to the large language model and say, hey, please buy 300 shares of index, a stock index, right? The language model is probably going to complete it with something, right? But the fact of the matter is, it is actually not going to be able to buy anything. The language model is an input. You know, you give it, you give it an input of words, it gives you output of probabilities of words, and you can sample from the words to start creating paragraphs. Right? That's it. It's actually not going to be able to log into your stock account. It's not going to be able to search for QQQ. It's not going to be able to create a limit order or a market order, and it's not going to be able to hit the confirm I want to buy button. It's not going to be able to check your balance to make sure. It's not going to be able to do any of that. So it can't even send an email. So it can't act. So this is what larger language models are. Now they were not. They were only supposed to be language completion. That was all they were supposed to be. And we would have been quite happy if they'd only completed language because that's what we built them for. But all of these were welcome side effects that we were we were kind of not even hoping we were kind of checking whether they can do, and they definitely can't act. They almost make a ton of mistakes with knowledge hallucination, but reasoning they were very surprising.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
