Now, given this, this was the state at which we found ourselves after large language models were a big thing on us. Then we ask ourselves, okay, now where next? So, what was surprising to us was the reasoning part. We were very, very surprised with the reasoning part. Now, what is reasoning, right? So, you can think of reasoning. I'm just giving you some examples of different types of reasoning. Now, large basically means more parameters and more data to train the parameters, models began to reason. The tiny language model that I kind of suggested as a thought experiment definitely cannot reason. Right, all it can do is give you characters. But the moment you make it large and you make it words and you make it really, really super large and train it with trillions and trillions and trillions of words, all of a sudden, it picks up an ability to reason, and this ability to reason forms a central part of what where we might go to next with this. So we found that language models are able to do logical reasoning that we just gave you an example for. It could do chain of thought problem solving. It can say, "Okay, I have this big problem. It's not as simple as John having apples, but it's a much bigger, more complex problems. How do I take one step at a time? How do I chain my thoughts to lead from the first step A to the second step B to the third step C and get eventually towards solving a more complex problem? It can do common sense inferencing. It can, you know, it can do mathematical reasoning. I could give it a math Olympiad problem, and it can do some mathematical reasoning, mathematical proofs, mathematical arguments, and so on. Now, obvious question is, why does this happen? It's supposed to be a simple language completion model, but why does this happen? Why is this emergent behavior? Why? Why did this emergent behavior actually emerge? Is the question, and the answer to that is quite actually straightforward and easy. Now, what you'll realize is that language, language that we write. When I write to you an email, I write a big research paper. I encode a lot of my thought process. I tell my reader when I read a research paper what I tried, how did I solve the problem, what are the steps I took towards solving the problem. I just don't write the last paragraph on the research paper and leave it at that. There's a lot of it that shows the reader my motivation, what I tried and what didn't work, what I tried and what did work, I give a lot of thoughts. If you look at people's Twitter feeds, it just doesn't tell you what they've concluded, what their opinions are. It often captures why the reasoning for why they believe something should be this way. There's a lot of reasoning encoded in our human language, and when a large language model starts to capture patterns in the human language, it starts to pick up because it's large. It starts to pick up something a little more than the text. The text is just the English text, but it's so large and complex. It's looking for higher order patterns, and it ends up picking from the language where we've already encoded. We've encoded several things into our language. We've encoded how we think. We've encoded how we solve our problems. We have encoded how we make decisions. We've encoded a ton of things into the language, and therefore the large language model ends up picking surprisingly picking almost all of our encoding and that's why these large language models are doing exactly what they were supposed to, which is surprise to us because we couldn't comprehend how large they were. So the models end up mimicking the reasoning that it learnt, and when they're large, this mimicr itself becomes functionally almost indistinguishable from human logical reasoning, and that's why we all of a sudden have reasoning possible. Now we've got to be a little cautious with our interpretation of this LLM scan reason takeaway. Yes, we can say that, but you have to remember LLMs are not actually reasoning; they are imitating human reasoning because they picked up the pattern, so when I show you that John has three apples problem, it's imitating.

The LLMs by themselves are not visualizing John having three apples. He doesn't even know what an apple is. It just apple is just a token or a word or a vector for it. It doesn't know what John who John is. He doesn't even know John is a person. Doesn't know Apple is an object. It doesn't know what giving away one means. It doesn't know what you know buying four means. Nothing. It's just piggybacking on human reasoning simply because it's found a pattern in human reasoning. Now, so they don't have internal models of logic or facts. They don't. The reasoning can be very inconsistent and brittle. Reasoning is not very strong. It is reasoning, but you have to be very, very cautious. Remember, it's a probabilistic. You know, the large language models at the end of the day are probabilistic. You give it a word, it gives you a probability, and you sample from the probability and stick that word in, and you keep going. And that probabilistic nature of things can once in a while completely break your reasoning. So when you do use the large language model's reasoning abilities, you need guardrails. You need to make sure that this reasoning is good before you go to the next step. So you need some kind of a trial and error. You know, in in classical programming, we'll call it the try catch kind of stuff, but we need to put that in a loop because we try once. If it doesn't work with large language models, we might want to try again. But in classical programming, we try once, and if it doesn't work, and that code chunk gives us an error, no matter how many times you do, you're going to get the same error. So we don't try again. We simply catch the error and report an error and move on. But with large language models, we need a loop around this trying because I might ask a large language model a question. Eight out of 10 times, it probably gives me the right answer, but two out of 10 times it doesn't give me the. It completely gives me some junk. I need to be able to catch that and say, "Oh, it's not giving me. It's not satisfying my objective. So let's try again. Okay. So we'll we'll talk about that looping again. But that's some important to remember because of the probabilistic nature of the way large language models produce their output or response. Now, large language model don't understand what an apple is, what John is, what giving away means, what buying means. None of that. The human sense they just pattern match efficiently. Now, having said all of this, the question is where do we go from here? Okay, if we are willing to digest that large language models are obscenely good at reasoning. Of course, they can trip once in a while, but as long as I can catch the tripping and redo it, I'm good. The question now is: Can we use these large language models? Can we use the reasoning ability to help us fix the knowledge and maybe help us even take actions. If we can do this, it's amazing. So this is the genesis of agents. Agents are, if you think of it as just computer programs, that at the heart of the computer program is a reasoning agent powered by a large language model, a reasoning behavior, and using that reasoning behavior, we either take actions or obtain knowledge. For example, you know we we call this you know people call this the RAG system, retrieval augmented generation. So we ask, what is the weather in Austin yesterday? And the large language model, because of its reasoning ability, realizes that it doesn't know this, and therefore it might go to a knowledge database, a weather database, or a weather a place where all the weather data is written down, and it might query the weather database and get the weather for Austin yesterday, and using that data again, reason out and put an output saying, "Ha! I check this weather database as according to weather weather.com or whatever. Yesterday's temperature was you know 95 degrees. It did not rain. Blah blah blah. It can give us a response.

And for example, I could say buy 300 shares of QQQ, and this reasoning agent might say, "Oh, to buy 300 shares of QQ, it reasons out and says, 'I need to log into your account. I need to, you know, make sure you have enough money. I need to place a limit order. I need to make the limit order such that it's not too far away from the market price last observed. It can reason, but or it can do all the reasoning it wants, but it cannot buy. So you might give it a set of tools here, just the way you gave it a database. Here you might give give it a set of tools, and the tools could be an API that allows the large language model to log into your stockbroker's account and actually send in a buy signal. Right? We'll talk about that. That is essentially the crux of a large language model being at the heart of what we are going to call an agent.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
