So let's think, compare a language model, a large language model, and something we're going to call an agent.

We're going to focus on the fact that a large language model can reason but cannot act. Okay, so I will not be able to tell this large language model send an email. Sending an email is just not possible for the lines of language model because it just doesn't know how to talk to an email server and an SMTP server, if you will, how to send, how to you know how to authenticate that I am who I am and send a password, authenticate and then send the email with the right proceed with the right protocol and things like that. Just doesn't know any of that. What it can do, on the other hand, you can ask the large language model to compose an email, write an email, write an email to dot dot dot saying dot dot dot. I can say write an email to John asking if he wants to have dinner with me tomorrow, right? And of course, the large language model is going to give you a very very good email. More often, it's going to give you a better email than you would we could write ourselves without typos, without any spelling mistakes and so on. Now that's great. You give it a prompt. You give get a response. You give it the same prompt again. You will get a slightly different response. That's the randomness in the sampling that goes on in the large language model. That's fine. You get a slightly different response, but those responses are all good responses, very close to each other. This is it. But if I come here and say instead of write, I use the word send an email. The large language model is going to be, oh my God, I don't know how to send an email. I really can't. I can't even. I can't do anything. I can just give you a series of text. That's all I'm built for. I'm built to complete your sentences. I cannot do anything. Sending an email is probably the easiest thing, but I just cannot. I cannot even click a button on the same screen as you are seeing, right? I cannot do any actions. Now, what people said was again, as I said, it's a good reasoning agent. Can we using use the LLMs reasoning to actually send the email, so that's what an agent is. An agent, think of an agent as a wrapper around LLMs. You've got LLM at heart, and it's a wrapper around LLMs. And because of that wrapper, LLMs are given extra abilities by engineering, like giving engineering abilities to for LLMs to do more. Now let's think about this. Now the same one I say send and email to John saying dot dot dot. Okay, but send is a difference, and what the LLM first does first? Since it's an agent, you know, even for a large language model, this is a human prompt. There is something inbuilt called the system prompt. The system prompt is kind of the overarching directions to the large language model. For example, a system prompt could sound like: Before I give the human prompt, the system prompt was also generated by humans, but said earlier than our later prompts. The system prompt could initiate this LLM, saying, "Hey, you know, imagine you are a useful assistant. You're a very efficient, you know, assistant. And every time the user asks you something. You compose emails in polite and error-free manner, or whatever, right? So you give it a system, overarching system goal, and that lives with a large language model. Similarly, from here, the first thing that happens here for an agent, an agent has a system prompt. Each agent will be will have a different system prompt, and this agent, for example, might be told, "Hey, you are an agent who is very helpful, who can do things. You have a certain set of tools, a certain set of tools, tool one, tool two, tool three, and so on. And these are the tools you can use any of these tools, and these tools, for example, in this particular case, could be a create email tool, could be a check email tool, create a move email to another folder tool, or it could be a send email tool. These are all functions. By tools here, I mean actual programming functions.

There is a function called send email, and if you send that function, the two address and the content of the email, that function, a classical programmed function, will log into your email server, authenticate you, and talk to the email server using the email server's APIs, and actually send the email. That's this function. You tell this tool. So you take this and you send it to a system prompt, agent prompt. Let's call it agent or system prompt. Agent prompt. And the agent prompt tells the large language model that this agent wants to do this task, but it also has access to these tools. It tells you tool one, tool two, tool three, and tool four. This agent prompt tells the LLM, "Hey, you are a helper who has access to four different functions, and each of these functions do these tasks. They describe it in English, and now the user wants you to send an email. What would you do? This large language, because it's a reasoning model, will say, "Hey, I will first compose an email, and then I will use the send email tool and call the send email tool with these parameters. And this agent wrapper will not only call the tool, but will not only reason this out but actually execute it as well, and once it so this large language model will execute the tool. This tool being a classical function in Python, let's say, and the tool will report back saying that I've done. You know, every function returns something, and this tool will say email sent, and this large language model will interpret the tool's response and then respond to the user saying your email, your email to John

has been sent. Has been sent. This is the key. It

reads, and it gives you the entire text, right? So this is the big thing. This is sent. Now think about it. All of a sudden, because of all these tools, tools, I can create incredible agents. I can give a web search tool, so I can send send an email to John, asking if he's available for dinner tomorrow, and propose one of the best restaurants in Austin in the email as a venue. So then it doesn't actually send an email saying propose one of the best restaurants. It actually the reasoning model identifies that I want to find the best restaurant in Austin because it can read and understand text. So it then goes to web search tool and finds asks the web search tool, can you find me the best restaurant in Austin? And the web search tool responds with a name of a restaurant, and it uses the name of the restaurant in the email and composes an email with the restaurant. Now I've included knowledge, a knowledge base, and an ability to send email. Both two different tools into one agent. I can keep giving agents new tools, and these tools are either external databases like the internet web search or even my own company's database, so somebody can call in your agent in your company and say, "Hey, what is my credit card balance? The large language model, of course, does not know what your credit card balance is, but the large language model can reason out saying that it needs to check a specific database in the company and use a response from the database to actually answer your question, and then calls the database, gets a response, returns to the user the response couched as a human response. This is a agent for us. So very quickly, the way I would summarize this: agents are nothing more than wrappers around large language models. At the heart of an agent is a large language model that is the reasoning mechanism. It's the heart. It's critical. Now, the core differentiators that make an agent an agent, apart from a large language model is that the agents have usually tools, and more importantly, the agents have looping. What do I mean by looping? Now, agents are reasoning mechanisms powered by large language models. Because of the sampling involved, sometimes it could make a mistake. Sometimes it could ask. It could call the wrong function. Very, you know, there are different tools. Tool number 123, and four. By mistake, it calls the web search tool. It wants to do a web search, and this it wants to get to this tool, and this tool takes only one parameter, which is the search terms. And I want to send this back. Restaurant in Austin, but sometimes the large language model makes a mistake because it's it's random. Sometimes it makes a mistake. Sometimes it's just brittle and makes a mistake. It ends up sending the query, "What is the best restaurant in Austin? to a calculator, and the calculator function, all it can do is take two numbers, add and send back, gets what is the best restaurant in Austin, and it throws an error. When it throws an error, the large language model realizes that it's not getting what it needs, and therefore it needs to reinvestigate or redo its reasoning, and hopefully it gets it right this time. Maybe it gets it eight or 10 times right, meaning second or third time it's got to get it right. Maybe it's such such a complex problem it's going to fail. If it fails, it needs to gracefully fail. But more often than not, if it retries it, it will say it's oh my god sorry I made a mistake. I'm going to ask the right to. Now you might realize when you go to ChatGPT or Grok or Gemini or whatever you cloud or whatever you want to call it, the number of times when you converse it with it, sometimes it makes a logical mistake, and then you point it out, it will say, "Aha, I'm sorry, I realize I made a mistake, and that's the exact mechanism by which we need a loop around, and that an agent should have a looping and an autonomy that says keep going till your goal is complete, till you get the best restaurant in Austin. Keep going.

Once you get the best restaurant in Austin, till you're able to send an actual email, keep going. Once you've done all of that, report to the user you're finished. So you loop, and you are driven by your objective, which is sending an email. So these are the two critical core differentiators. Now, of course, you can give a ton of additional capabilities. You can give it give give it knowledge, and you know usually the easiest way to think of any rags system is that it is an agent, but just the way it was developed, Rags came before agents were even born. You know, retrieval argument. So you know, people think of Rags as independent of an agent, but it's perfectly all right to think of an agent as having knowledge, which will make it a Rags agent. Right? You can give it memory. We'll talk a little about this. You can give it goals. You can say the final goal is for you to create an app, right? You can give it controls and guard plates. You can say, "Hey, I want you to loop, but I don't want you to loop more than 25 times because at that point, just give up. Just tell tell me that you were not able to accomplish and fail gracefully. Don't just throw an error, but tell me gracefully that I tried it 25 times, but I was not able to send your email. There is some problem, and see if you can tell me the problem in plain English language, right? So I want to make sure guardrails. So, for example, if I'm querying a credit card database, I need to be very, very careful. I can't have one user asking the credit card balance of some other users' credit card balance, so there needs to be very fine-tuned guardrails that makes sure that security and cyber people can't hack in and things like that. And you could have a better planning and looping prompt. We'll talk about the React prompt in specific. We there are different kinds of system prompts, agent prompts that will allow the agent to be a little more smarter, little more geared towards proper planning and execution. We'll talk about how you can give better prompts. We can even give it reasoning resources. We can give it a scratch pad. You can say, "Hey, keep a scratch pad, and that's the place where you remember every conversation. Every you know, every time you talk to a tool and get a response, write it down on a scratch pad so you know what's going on, and you're able to get an overview. You can give it environment context. You can tell it what time it is today. You can tell it that you. I live in Austin. You can tell it a lot of user. You can tell it that you know Kumar likes Japanese food. It it kind of comes from memory too, but you can give it external to memory. You can collaborating multiple agents talking to each other. You can have a personality or a load role. You can say, hey, you are a very helpful assistant. Whenever a user asks you something, be polite in your responses. You can give it a role of that kind, or you can say, "Hey, you are a legal assistant, so whenever a user asks you for a response, the language that you need to give your response in should be very tight legal language, so you can give it roles. So this is what makes an agent. But an agent could potentially have any or all of these capabilities, or probably more. This is not even exhaustive list; it's the list of the more important, the the obvious ones. Okay, now having said that, I want to emphasize again before we move on that reasoning is central. This reasoning is the central piece of an agent. This is what makes an agent an agent, and that's why the moment you say agent in today's world, you're. Talking about agentic AI, right? You know, and the reason we're talking about agentic AI because without this large language model piece, there's almost nothing.

The large language model piece allows us to figure out what tools are there and how to delegate it. It allows us to plan with a goal in mind. It allows us to make decisions, compare different choices, you know, weigh one against other, and so on. It allows us to do self-reflection. More importantly, it allows us to do correction. When you make a mistake, you kind of introspect and say, "Oh my God, I made a mistake. I called the wrong function. Let me correct it and keep going.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
